packages/transducers-stats/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/transducers-stats](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-transducers-stats.svg?6c668527)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/transducers-stats.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/transducers-stats)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/transducers-stats.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Supported indicators](#supported-indicators)
- [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Transducers for statistical / technical analysis. This is a support package for [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers).

This package provides a set of
[transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)
for [technical
(financial)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technical_indicator) and
statistical analysis and replaces the older
[@thi.ng/indicators](https://github.com/thi-ng/indicators) package.

The transducers provided here accept an optional input iterable, which
allows them them to be used directly instead of having to wrap their
call in one of the transducer execution functions (i.e. `transduce()`,
`iterator()`). If executed this way, the functions will return a
transforming ES6 iterator (generator) instead of a transducer.

## Supported indicators

- [Bollinger Bands](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/bollinger.ts)
- [Donchian Channel](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/donchian.ts)
- [EMA (Exponential Moving Average)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/ema.ts)
- [HMA (Hull Moving Average)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/hma.ts)
- [MACD (Moving Average Convergence/Divergence)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/macd.ts)
- [Momentum](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/momentum.ts)
- [ROC (Rate of change)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/roc.ts)
- [RSI (Relative Strength Index)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/rsi.ts)
- [SD (Standard Deviation)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/sd.ts)
- [SMA (Simple Moving Average)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/sma.ts)
- [Stochastic oscillator](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/stochastic.ts)
- [TRIX (Triple smoothed EMA)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/trix.ts)
- [WMA (Weighted Moving Average)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/wma.ts)

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Btransducers-stats%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/transducers-stats
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/transducers-stats"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const transducersStats = await import("@thi.ng/transducers-stats");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 1.39 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/dcons](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/dcons)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)

## Usage examples

Several projects in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                                | Description                                                            | Live demo                                                | Source                                                                                |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/ascii-raymarch.jpg" width="240"/>     | ASCII art raymarching with thi.ng/shader-ast & thi.ng/text-canvas      | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/ascii-raymarch/)     | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/ascii-raymarch)     |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/crypto-chart.png" width="240"/>       | Basic crypto-currency candle chart with multiple moving averages plots | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/crypto-chart/)       | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/crypto-chart)       |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/shader-ast-workers.jpg" width="240"/> | Fork-join worker-based raymarch renderer (JS/CPU only)                 | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/shader-ast-workers/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/shader-ast-workers) |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/transducers-stats/)

```ts
import * as tx from "@thi.ng/transducers";
import * as stats from "@thi.ng/transducers-stats";

// Simple moving average (SMA) (sliding window size 5)
// if an input is given (as is the case here), then returns
// a transforming iterator instead of transducer
[...stats.sma(5, [1,2,3,4,5,10,11,12,13,14,9,8,7,6,5])]
// [ 3, 4.8, 6.6, 8.4, 10.2, 12, 11.8, 11.2, 10.2, 8.8, 7 ]

// compute multiple stats at once
tx.transduce(
    tx.comp(
        tx.multiplexObj({
            sma: stats.sma(5),
            ema: stats.ema(5),
            wma: stats.wma(5)
        }),
        // ignore first `period-1` values
        // (because MAs require at least `period` inputs to warm up)
        tx.drop(4)
    ),
    tx.push(),
    [1,2,3,4,5,10,11,12,13,14,9,8,7,6,5]
);
// [ { wma: 3.6666666666666665, ema: 3, sma: 3 },
//   { wma: 6, ema: 5.333333333333333, sma: 4.8 },
//   { wma: 8.066666666666666, ema: 7.222222222222221, sma: 6.6 },
//   { wma: 9.866666666666667, ema: 8.814814814814815, sma: 8.4 },
//   { wma: 11.4, ema: 10.209876543209877, sma: 10.2 },
//   { wma: 12.666666666666666, ema: 11.473251028806585, sma: 12 },
//   { wma: 11.666666666666666, ema: 10.64883401920439, sma: 11.8 },
//   { wma: 10.4, ema: 9.76588934613626, sma: 11.2 },
//   { wma: 9, ema: 8.843926230757507, sma: 10.2 },
//   { wma: 7.6, ema: 7.895950820505004, sma: 8.8 },
//   { wma: 6.333333333333333, ema: 6.93063388033667, sma: 7 } ]
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-transducers-stats,
  title = "@thi.ng/transducers-stats",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/transducers-stats",
  year = 2017
}
```

## License

&copy; 2017 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

docs: update readmes (CFP survey header)

packages/transducers-stats/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->
> [!IMPORTANT]
> ‼️ Announcing the thi.ng user survey 2024 📋
>
> [Please participate in the survey here!](https://forms.gle/XacbSDEmQMPZg8197)\
> (open until end of February)
>
> **To achieve a better sample size, I'd highly appreciate if you could
> circulate the link to this survey in your own networks.**
>
> [Discussion](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/discussions/447)

# ![@thi.ng/transducers-stats](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-transducers-stats.svg?6c668527)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/transducers-stats.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/transducers-stats)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/transducers-stats.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Supported indicators](#supported-indicators)
- [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Transducers for statistical / technical analysis. This is a support package for [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers).

This package provides a set of
[transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)
for [technical
(financial)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technical_indicator) and
statistical analysis and replaces the older
[@thi.ng/indicators](https://github.com/thi-ng/indicators) package.

The transducers provided here accept an optional input iterable, which
allows them them to be used directly instead of having to wrap their
call in one of the transducer execution functions (i.e. `transduce()`,
`iterator()`). If executed this way, the functions will return a
transforming ES6 iterator (generator) instead of a transducer.

## Supported indicators

- [Bollinger Bands](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/bollinger.ts)
- [Donchian Channel](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/donchian.ts)
- [EMA (Exponential Moving Average)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/ema.ts)
- [HMA (Hull Moving Average)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/hma.ts)
- [MACD (Moving Average Convergence/Divergence)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/macd.ts)
- [Momentum](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/momentum.ts)
- [ROC (Rate of change)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/roc.ts)
- [RSI (Relative Strength Index)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/rsi.ts)
- [SD (Standard Deviation)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/sd.ts)
- [SMA (Simple Moving Average)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/sma.ts)
- [Stochastic oscillator](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/stochastic.ts)
- [TRIX (Triple smoothed EMA)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/trix.ts)
- [WMA (Weighted Moving Average)](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers-stats/src/wma.ts)

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Btransducers-stats%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/transducers-stats
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/transducers-stats"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const transducersStats = await import("@thi.ng/transducers-stats");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 1.39 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/dcons](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/dcons)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)

## Usage examples

Several projects in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                                | Description                                                            | Live demo                                                | Source                                                                                |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/ascii-raymarch.jpg" width="240"/>     | ASCII art raymarching with thi.ng/shader-ast & thi.ng/text-canvas      | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/ascii-raymarch/)     | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/ascii-raymarch)     |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/crypto-chart.png" width="240"/>       | Basic crypto-currency candle chart with multiple moving averages plots | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/crypto-chart/)       | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/crypto-chart)       |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/shader-ast-workers.jpg" width="240"/> | Fork-join worker-based raymarch renderer (JS/CPU only)                 | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/shader-ast-workers/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/shader-ast-workers) |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/transducers-stats/)

```ts
import * as tx from "@thi.ng/transducers";
import * as stats from "@thi.ng/transducers-stats";

// Simple moving average (SMA) (sliding window size 5)
// if an input is given (as is the case here), then returns
// a transforming iterator instead of transducer
[...stats.sma(5, [1,2,3,4,5,10,11,12,13,14,9,8,7,6,5])]
// [ 3, 4.8, 6.6, 8.4, 10.2, 12, 11.8, 11.2, 10.2, 8.8, 7 ]

// compute multiple stats at once
tx.transduce(
    tx.comp(
        tx.multiplexObj({
            sma: stats.sma(5),
            ema: stats.ema(5),
            wma: stats.wma(5)
        }),
        // ignore first `period-1` values
        // (because MAs require at least `period` inputs to warm up)
        tx.drop(4)
    ),
    tx.push(),
    [1,2,3,4,5,10,11,12,13,14,9,8,7,6,5]
);
// [ { wma: 3.6666666666666665, ema: 3, sma: 3 },
//   { wma: 6, ema: 5.333333333333333, sma: 4.8 },
//   { wma: 8.066666666666666, ema: 7.222222222222221, sma: 6.6 },
//   { wma: 9.866666666666667, ema: 8.814814814814815, sma: 8.4 },
//   { wma: 11.4, ema: 10.209876543209877, sma: 10.2 },
//   { wma: 12.666666666666666, ema: 11.473251028806585, sma: 12 },
//   { wma: 11.666666666666666, ema: 10.64883401920439, sma: 11.8 },
//   { wma: 10.4, ema: 9.76588934613626, sma: 11.2 },
//   { wma: 9, ema: 8.843926230757507, sma: 10.2 },
//   { wma: 7.6, ema: 7.895950820505004, sma: 8.8 },
//   { wma: 6.333333333333333, ema: 6.93063388033667, sma: 7 } ]
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-transducers-stats,
  title = "@thi.ng/transducers-stats",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/transducers-stats",
  year = 2017
}
```

## License

&copy; 2017 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0
