packages/transducers-fsm/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/transducers-fsm](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-transducers-fsm.svg?badc9ef5)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/transducers-fsm.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/transducers-fsm)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/transducers-fsm.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

**Update 12/2022: This package is considered completed and no longer being
updated with new features.**

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
  - [3-state FSM](#3-state-fsm)
- [API](#api)
  - [fsm transducer](#fsm-transducer)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Transducer-based Finite State Machine transformer. This is a support package for [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers).

This package provides a single function, a general purpose [Finite State
Machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite-state_machine) transducer,
which acts as useful & lightweight mechanism to provide
context-sensitive processing capabilities as part of a transducer
transformation pipeline.

## Status

**COMPLETED** - no further development planned

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Btransducers-fsm%5D+in%3Atitle)

This package might be merged with (or deprecated by) the newer
[@thi.ng/parse](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/parse)
package.

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/fsm](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/fsm) - Composable primitives for building declarative, transducer based Finite-State Machines & matchers for arbitrary data streams
- [@thi.ng/sax](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/sax) - Transducer-based, SAX-like, non-validating, speedy & tiny XML parser

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/transducers-fsm
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/transducers-fsm"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const transducersFsm = await import("@thi.ng/transducers-fsm");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 213 bytes

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)

## Usage examples

One project in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory is using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                                | Description                                                                                | Live demo                                                | Source                                                                                |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/rdom-key-sequences.jpg" width="240"/> | rstream & transducer-based FSM for converting key event sequences into high-level commands | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/rdom-key-sequences/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/rdom-key-sequences) |

## Usage examples

For a real world example, the
[@thi.ng/sax](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/sax)
package provides a SAX-like XML parser transducer, built around the FSM
provided here.

### 3-state FSM

The following example defines a simple FSM with 3 states:

- `skip`
- `take`
- `done`

The FSM always starts in the `skip` state.

The FSM alternates between skipping or consuming (passing through) 5
inputs as long as each input is < 20. Once an input is >= 20, the FSM
switches into the `done` state, which has been declared as a *terminal*
state and once entered will cause processing to terminate (also see API
description further below).

```ts
import { fsm } from '@thi.ng/transducers-fsm'
import * as tx from '@thi.ng/transducers'
import { isOdd } from '@thi.ng/checks'

const testFSM = fsm({

    // initial state initializer
    // (called before processing 1st input)
    init: () => ({ state: "skip", count: 0 }),

    // terminal state ID
    terminate: "done",

    // individual state handlers
    states: {
        // skip state
        skip: (state, x) => {
            if (x < 20) {
                if (++state.count > 5) {
                    state.state = "take";
                    state.count = 1;
                    return [x];
                }
            } else {
                state.state = "done";
            }
        },

        // take state
        take: (state, x) => {
            if (x < 20) {
                if (++state.count > 5) {
                    state.state = "skip";
                    state.count = 1;
                } else {
                    return [x];
                }
            } else {
                state.state = "done";
            }
        },

        // terminal state, ignore inputs
        done: () => { },
    },
});

[...tx.iterator(testFSM, tx.range(100))]
// [ 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 ]

// Use FSM as part of composed transducers...

[...tx.iterator(tx.comp(tx.takeNth(2), testFSM), tx.range(100))]
// [ 10, 12, 14, 16, 18 ]

[
    ...tx.iterator(
        tx.comp(
            tx.mapcat((x) => x.split(/[,\s]+/g)),
            tx.map((x) => parseInt(x)),
            testFSM,
            tx.filter(isOdd)
        ),
        ["9,8,7,6", "14 1 0 17 15 16", "19,23,12,42,4"]
    )
]
// [ 1, 17, 15 ]
```

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/transducers-fsm/)

### fsm transducer

`fsm<T extends FSMState, A, B>(opts: FSMOpts<T, A, B[]>): Transducer<A, B>`

Finite State Machine transducer. Takes an FSM configuration object and
returns a transducer, which processes inputs using the provided state
handler functions, which in turn can produce any number of outputs per
consumed input.

Before processing the first input, the FSM state is initialized by
calling the user provided `init()` function, which MUST return a state
object with at least a `state` key, whose value is used for dynamic
(i.e. stateful) dispatch during input processing. This state object is
passed with each input value to the current state handler, which is
expected to mutate this object, e.g. to cause state changes based on
given inputs.

If a state handler needs to "emit" results for downstream processing, it
can return an array of values. Any such values are passed on
(individually, not as array) to the next reducer in the chain. If a
state handler returns `null` or `undefined`, further downstream
processing of the current input is skipped.

Regardless of return value, if a state handler has caused a state change
to the configured `terminate` state, processing is terminated (by calling
`ensureReduced()`) and no further inputs will be consumed.

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-transducers-fsm,
  title = "@thi.ng/transducers-fsm",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/transducers-fsm",
  year = 2018
}
```

## License

&copy; 2018 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

docs: update readmes (CFP survey header)

packages/transducers-fsm/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->
> [!IMPORTANT]
> ‼️ Announcing the thi.ng user survey 2024 📋
>
> [Please participate in the survey here!](https://forms.gle/XacbSDEmQMPZg8197)\
> (open until end of February)
>
> **To achieve a better sample size, I'd highly appreciate if you could
> circulate the link to this survey in your own networks.**
>
> [Discussion](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/discussions/447)

# ![@thi.ng/transducers-fsm](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-transducers-fsm.svg?badc9ef5)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/transducers-fsm.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/transducers-fsm)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/transducers-fsm.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

**Update 12/2022: This package is considered completed and no longer being
updated with new features.**

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
  - [3-state FSM](#3-state-fsm)
- [API](#api)
  - [fsm transducer](#fsm-transducer)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Transducer-based Finite State Machine transformer. This is a support package for [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers).

This package provides a single function, a general purpose [Finite State
Machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finite-state_machine) transducer,
which acts as useful & lightweight mechanism to provide
context-sensitive processing capabilities as part of a transducer
transformation pipeline.

## Status

**COMPLETED** - no further development planned

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Btransducers-fsm%5D+in%3Atitle)

This package might be merged with (or deprecated by) the newer
[@thi.ng/parse](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/parse)
package.

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/fsm](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/fsm) - Composable primitives for building declarative, transducer based Finite-State Machines & matchers for arbitrary data streams
- [@thi.ng/sax](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/sax) - Transducer-based, SAX-like, non-validating, speedy & tiny XML parser

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/transducers-fsm
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/transducers-fsm"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const transducersFsm = await import("@thi.ng/transducers-fsm");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 213 bytes

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)

## Usage examples

One project in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory is using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                                | Description                                                                                | Live demo                                                | Source                                                                                |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/rdom-key-sequences.jpg" width="240"/> | rstream & transducer-based FSM for converting key event sequences into high-level commands | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/rdom-key-sequences/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/rdom-key-sequences) |

## Usage examples

For a real world example, the
[@thi.ng/sax](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/sax)
package provides a SAX-like XML parser transducer, built around the FSM
provided here.

### 3-state FSM

The following example defines a simple FSM with 3 states:

- `skip`
- `take`
- `done`

The FSM always starts in the `skip` state.

The FSM alternates between skipping or consuming (passing through) 5
inputs as long as each input is < 20. Once an input is >= 20, the FSM
switches into the `done` state, which has been declared as a *terminal*
state and once entered will cause processing to terminate (also see API
description further below).

```ts
import { fsm } from '@thi.ng/transducers-fsm'
import * as tx from '@thi.ng/transducers'
import { isOdd } from '@thi.ng/checks'

const testFSM = fsm({

    // initial state initializer
    // (called before processing 1st input)
    init: () => ({ state: "skip", count: 0 }),

    // terminal state ID
    terminate: "done",

    // individual state handlers
    states: {
        // skip state
        skip: (state, x) => {
            if (x < 20) {
                if (++state.count > 5) {
                    state.state = "take";
                    state.count = 1;
                    return [x];
                }
            } else {
                state.state = "done";
            }
        },

        // take state
        take: (state, x) => {
            if (x < 20) {
                if (++state.count > 5) {
                    state.state = "skip";
                    state.count = 1;
                } else {
                    return [x];
                }
            } else {
                state.state = "done";
            }
        },

        // terminal state, ignore inputs
        done: () => { },
    },
});

[...tx.iterator(testFSM, tx.range(100))]
// [ 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 ]

// Use FSM as part of composed transducers...

[...tx.iterator(tx.comp(tx.takeNth(2), testFSM), tx.range(100))]
// [ 10, 12, 14, 16, 18 ]

[
    ...tx.iterator(
        tx.comp(
            tx.mapcat((x) => x.split(/[,\s]+/g)),
            tx.map((x) => parseInt(x)),
            testFSM,
            tx.filter(isOdd)
        ),
        ["9,8,7,6", "14 1 0 17 15 16", "19,23,12,42,4"]
    )
]
// [ 1, 17, 15 ]
```

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/transducers-fsm/)

### fsm transducer

`fsm<T extends FSMState, A, B>(opts: FSMOpts<T, A, B[]>): Transducer<A, B>`

Finite State Machine transducer. Takes an FSM configuration object and
returns a transducer, which processes inputs using the provided state
handler functions, which in turn can produce any number of outputs per
consumed input.

Before processing the first input, the FSM state is initialized by
calling the user provided `init()` function, which MUST return a state
object with at least a `state` key, whose value is used for dynamic
(i.e. stateful) dispatch during input processing. This state object is
passed with each input value to the current state handler, which is
expected to mutate this object, e.g. to cause state changes based on
given inputs.

If a state handler needs to "emit" results for downstream processing, it
can return an array of values. Any such values are passed on
(individually, not as array) to the next reducer in the chain. If a
state handler returns `null` or `undefined`, further downstream
processing of the current input is skipped.

Regardless of return value, if a state handler has caused a state change
to the configured `terminate` state, processing is terminated (by calling
`ensureReduced()`) and no further inputs will be consumed.

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-transducers-fsm,
  title = "@thi.ng/transducers-fsm",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/transducers-fsm",
  year = 2018
}
```

## License

&copy; 2018 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0
