packages/csp/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/csp](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-csp.svg?dd2a4b97)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/csp.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/csp)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/csp.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [API](#api)
  - [File loading & word frequency analysis](#file-loading--word-frequency-analysis)
  - [Channel merging](#channel-merging)
  - [PubSub](#pubsub)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

ES6 promise based CSP primitives & operations.

- `Channel` with/without buffering and/or
  [transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/transducers)
  - optional channel IDs
  - choice of buffer behaviors (fixed, sliding, dropping)
  - channel selection
  - channel merging (many-to-one, serial or parallel)
  - channel piping (w/ transducers)
  - timeouts / sleeping / throttling / delaying
  - prepopulated channel ctors (iterators, ranges, promise, constants etc.)
- `Mult` for channel multiplexing (one-to-many splitting)
  - individual transducers per tap
  - dynamic add/removal of taps
- `PubSub` for topic subscriptions
  - each topic implemented as `Mult`
  - wildcard topic for processing fallthrough messages

## Status

**DEPRECATED** - superseded by other package(s)

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bcsp%5D+in%3Atitle)

This package is deprecated. Please see the following actively maintained
alternatives providing similar functionality:

- [@thi.ng/fibers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/fibers)
- [@thi.ng/rstream](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/rstream)

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/rstream](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/rstream) - Reactive streams & subscription primitives for constructing dataflow graphs / pipelines

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/csp
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/csp"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const csp = await import("@thi.ng/csp");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 2.58 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/arrays](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/arrays)
- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/dcons](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/dcons)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/csp/)

### File loading & word frequency analysis

```ts
import { Channel } from "@thi.ng/csp";
import * as tx from "@thi.ng/transducers";

// compose transducer to split source file into words
// and filter out short strings
const proc: tx.Transducer<string, string> = tx.comp(
    tx.mapcat((src: string) => src.toLowerCase().split(/[^\w]+/g)),
    tx.filter((w: string) => w.length > 1)
);

// define a channel which receives file paths
// and resolves them with their contents
const paths = new Channel<any>(
    tx.map((path: string) =>
        new Promise<string>(
            resolve => fs.readFile(path, (_, data) => resolve(data.toString()))
        )
    )
);

// define multiplexed output channel
// items in this channel will have this form: `[word, count]`
const results = new Mult("results");

// tap result channel and sum word counts
const counter = results
    .tap(tx.map(x => x[1]))
    .reduce(tx.add());

// 2nd output channel with streaming sort transducer
// (using a sliding window size of 500 items) and dropping
// words with < 20 occurrences
const sorted = results.tap(
    tx.comp(
        tx.streamSort(500, x => x[1]),
        tx.dropWhile(x => x[1] < 20)
    )
);

// define workflow:
// pipe source files into a new channel and
// reduce this channel using `frequencies` reducer
// finally stream the result map (word frequencies)
// into the `sorted` channel
// (`freqs` is a JS Map and is iterable)
paths.pipe(proc)
    .reduce(tx.frequencies())
    .then(freqs => results.channel().into(freqs));

// start tracing sorted outputs and
// wait for all to finish
Promise
    .all([sorted.consume(), counter])
    .then(([_, num]) => console.log("total words:", num));

// no real work has been executed thus far (only scheduled via promises)
// now kick off entire process by writing file paths into the 1st channel
paths.into(["src/channel.ts", "src/mult.ts", "src/pubsub.ts"]);

// results-tap1 : [ 'let', 20 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'topic', 20 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'chan', 20 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'number', 22 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'buf', 23 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'length', 23 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'tx', 25 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'state', 25 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'from', 27 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'close', 28 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'new', 33 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'args', 34 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'id', 36 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'any', 36 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'src', 38 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'if', 40 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'return', 47 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'channel', 57 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'this', 120 ]
// results-tap1 done
// total words: 1607
```

### Channel merging

```ts
Channel.merge([
    Channel.range(0, 3),
    Channel.range(10, 15),
    Channel.range(100, 110)
]).reduce(tx.push()).then(console.log);

// [ 0, 100, 101, 102, 103, 1, 2, 104, 105, 10, 11, 12, 13, 106, 14, 107, 108, 109 ]

// emit tuples of values read from all inputs
// preserves ordering of all inputs, but
// throughput controlled by slowest input
// by default stops & closes when any of the inputs closes
Channel.mergeTuples([
    Channel.from([1, 2, 3]),
    Channel.from([10, 20, 30, 40]),
    Channel.from([100, 200, 300, 400, 500])
], null, false).consume();

// chan-3 : [ 1, 10, 100 ]
// chan-3 : [ 2, 20, 200 ]
// chan-3 : [ 3, 30, 300 ]
// chan-3 done

// same as above, however continues until all inputs are closed
Channel.mergeTuples([
    Channel.from([1, 2, 3]),
    Channel.from([10, 20, 30, 40]),
    Channel.from([100, 200, 300, 400, 500])
], null, false).consume();

// chan-3 : [ 1, 10, 100 ]
// chan-3 : [ 2, 20, 200 ]
// chan-3 : [ 3, 30, 300 ]
// chan-3 : [ undefined, 40, 400 ]
// chan-3 : [ undefined, undefined, 500 ]
// chan-3 done
```

### PubSub

```ts
// define a channel publisher with transducer and topic function applied to each item
// the input channel receives names and transforms them into indexable objects
const pub = new PubSub(
    new Channel<any>("users", tx.map((x: string) => ({ type: x.charAt(0), val: x }))),
    (x) => x.type
);

// create subscriptions (channel + debug consumer)
// under the hood each topic is a Mult (multiplexed channel)
// sub channels are automatically named:
// `<src-id>-<topic>-tap<tapid>` (see below)
for (let i of "abc") {
    pub.sub(i).consume();
}

// start processing, then close everything down
// (pubsubs & mults are closed recursively once the input channel is closed)
pub.channel().into(["alice", "bert", "bella", "charlie", "arthur"]);

// users-a-tap0 : { type: 'a', val: 'alice' }
// users-b-tap0 : { type: 'b', val: 'bert' }
// users-b-tap0 : { type: 'b', val: 'bella' }
// users-c-tap0 : { type: 'c', val: 'charlie' }
// users-a-tap0 : { type: 'a', val: 'arthur' }
// users-b-tap0 done
// users-c-tap0 done
// users-a-tap0 done
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-csp,
  title = "@thi.ng/csp",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/csp",
  year = 2016
}
```

## License

&copy; 2016 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

docs: update readmes (CFP survey header)

packages/csp/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->
> [!IMPORTANT]
> ‼️ Announcing the thi.ng user survey 2024 📋
>
> [Please participate in the survey here!](https://forms.gle/XacbSDEmQMPZg8197)\
> (open until end of February)
>
> **To achieve a better sample size, I'd highly appreciate if you could
> circulate the link to this survey in your own networks.**
>
> [Discussion](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/discussions/447)

# ![@thi.ng/csp](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-csp.svg?dd2a4b97)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/csp.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/csp)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/csp.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [API](#api)
  - [File loading & word frequency analysis](#file-loading--word-frequency-analysis)
  - [Channel merging](#channel-merging)
  - [PubSub](#pubsub)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

ES6 promise based CSP primitives & operations.

- `Channel` with/without buffering and/or
  [transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/transducers)
  - optional channel IDs
  - choice of buffer behaviors (fixed, sliding, dropping)
  - channel selection
  - channel merging (many-to-one, serial or parallel)
  - channel piping (w/ transducers)
  - timeouts / sleeping / throttling / delaying
  - prepopulated channel ctors (iterators, ranges, promise, constants etc.)
- `Mult` for channel multiplexing (one-to-many splitting)
  - individual transducers per tap
  - dynamic add/removal of taps
- `PubSub` for topic subscriptions
  - each topic implemented as `Mult`
  - wildcard topic for processing fallthrough messages

## Status

**DEPRECATED** - superseded by other package(s)

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bcsp%5D+in%3Atitle)

This package is deprecated. Please see the following actively maintained
alternatives providing similar functionality:

- [@thi.ng/fibers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/fibers)
- [@thi.ng/rstream](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/rstream)

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/rstream](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/rstream) - Reactive streams & subscription primitives for constructing dataflow graphs / pipelines

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/csp
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/csp"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const csp = await import("@thi.ng/csp");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 2.58 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/arrays](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/arrays)
- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/dcons](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/dcons)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/csp/)

### File loading & word frequency analysis

```ts
import { Channel } from "@thi.ng/csp";
import * as tx from "@thi.ng/transducers";

// compose transducer to split source file into words
// and filter out short strings
const proc: tx.Transducer<string, string> = tx.comp(
    tx.mapcat((src: string) => src.toLowerCase().split(/[^\w]+/g)),
    tx.filter((w: string) => w.length > 1)
);

// define a channel which receives file paths
// and resolves them with their contents
const paths = new Channel<any>(
    tx.map((path: string) =>
        new Promise<string>(
            resolve => fs.readFile(path, (_, data) => resolve(data.toString()))
        )
    )
);

// define multiplexed output channel
// items in this channel will have this form: `[word, count]`
const results = new Mult("results");

// tap result channel and sum word counts
const counter = results
    .tap(tx.map(x => x[1]))
    .reduce(tx.add());

// 2nd output channel with streaming sort transducer
// (using a sliding window size of 500 items) and dropping
// words with < 20 occurrences
const sorted = results.tap(
    tx.comp(
        tx.streamSort(500, x => x[1]),
        tx.dropWhile(x => x[1] < 20)
    )
);

// define workflow:
// pipe source files into a new channel and
// reduce this channel using `frequencies` reducer
// finally stream the result map (word frequencies)
// into the `sorted` channel
// (`freqs` is a JS Map and is iterable)
paths.pipe(proc)
    .reduce(tx.frequencies())
    .then(freqs => results.channel().into(freqs));

// start tracing sorted outputs and
// wait for all to finish
Promise
    .all([sorted.consume(), counter])
    .then(([_, num]) => console.log("total words:", num));

// no real work has been executed thus far (only scheduled via promises)
// now kick off entire process by writing file paths into the 1st channel
paths.into(["src/channel.ts", "src/mult.ts", "src/pubsub.ts"]);

// results-tap1 : [ 'let', 20 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'topic', 20 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'chan', 20 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'number', 22 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'buf', 23 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'length', 23 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'tx', 25 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'state', 25 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'from', 27 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'close', 28 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'new', 33 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'args', 34 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'id', 36 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'any', 36 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'src', 38 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'if', 40 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'return', 47 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'channel', 57 ]
// results-tap1 : [ 'this', 120 ]
// results-tap1 done
// total words: 1607
```

### Channel merging

```ts
Channel.merge([
    Channel.range(0, 3),
    Channel.range(10, 15),
    Channel.range(100, 110)
]).reduce(tx.push()).then(console.log);

// [ 0, 100, 101, 102, 103, 1, 2, 104, 105, 10, 11, 12, 13, 106, 14, 107, 108, 109 ]

// emit tuples of values read from all inputs
// preserves ordering of all inputs, but
// throughput controlled by slowest input
// by default stops & closes when any of the inputs closes
Channel.mergeTuples([
    Channel.from([1, 2, 3]),
    Channel.from([10, 20, 30, 40]),
    Channel.from([100, 200, 300, 400, 500])
], null, false).consume();

// chan-3 : [ 1, 10, 100 ]
// chan-3 : [ 2, 20, 200 ]
// chan-3 : [ 3, 30, 300 ]
// chan-3 done

// same as above, however continues until all inputs are closed
Channel.mergeTuples([
    Channel.from([1, 2, 3]),
    Channel.from([10, 20, 30, 40]),
    Channel.from([100, 200, 300, 400, 500])
], null, false).consume();

// chan-3 : [ 1, 10, 100 ]
// chan-3 : [ 2, 20, 200 ]
// chan-3 : [ 3, 30, 300 ]
// chan-3 : [ undefined, 40, 400 ]
// chan-3 : [ undefined, undefined, 500 ]
// chan-3 done
```

### PubSub

```ts
// define a channel publisher with transducer and topic function applied to each item
// the input channel receives names and transforms them into indexable objects
const pub = new PubSub(
    new Channel<any>("users", tx.map((x: string) => ({ type: x.charAt(0), val: x }))),
    (x) => x.type
);

// create subscriptions (channel + debug consumer)
// under the hood each topic is a Mult (multiplexed channel)
// sub channels are automatically named:
// `<src-id>-<topic>-tap<tapid>` (see below)
for (let i of "abc") {
    pub.sub(i).consume();
}

// start processing, then close everything down
// (pubsubs & mults are closed recursively once the input channel is closed)
pub.channel().into(["alice", "bert", "bella", "charlie", "arthur"]);

// users-a-tap0 : { type: 'a', val: 'alice' }
// users-b-tap0 : { type: 'b', val: 'bert' }
// users-b-tap0 : { type: 'b', val: 'bella' }
// users-c-tap0 : { type: 'c', val: 'charlie' }
// users-a-tap0 : { type: 'a', val: 'arthur' }
// users-b-tap0 done
// users-c-tap0 done
// users-a-tap0 done
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-csp,
  title = "@thi.ng/csp",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/csp",
  year = 2016
}
```

## License

&copy; 2016 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0
