packages/pixel-io-netpbm/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-pixel-io-netpbm.svg?c4ef1813)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Multi-format NetPBM reader & writer support for [@thi.ng/pixel](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/pixel).

This package can read & write binary
[NetPBM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netpbm) image formats from byte
arrays/buffers to
[@thi.ng/pixel](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/pixel)
pixel buffers (aka `PackedBuffer`).

|      Source format | Destination format    | Rec. file extension<sup>(1)</sup> |
|-------------------:|-----------------------|-----------------------------------|
|              1 bit | `GRAY8`<sup>(2)</sup> | `.pbm`                            |
|  2-8 bit grayscale | `GRAY8`               | `.pgm`                            |
| 9-16 bit grayscale | `GRAY16`              | `.pgm`                            |
|         24 bit RGB | `ARGB8888`            | `.ppm`                            |

<sup>(1)</sup> no relevance to actual parse/export logic
<sup>(2)</sup> currently no support for actual 1-bit pixel buffers

Furthermore the `parseHeader()` function can be used to just extract image type,
size and other meta data (from comments), without parsing the full image.

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bpixel-io-netpbm%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const pixelIoNetpbm = await import("@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 1.24 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/pixel](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/pixel)

## Usage examples

One project in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory is using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                          | Description                                            | Live demo                                          | Source                                                                          |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/trace-bitmap.jpg" width="240"/> | Multi-layer vectorization & dithering of bitmap images | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/trace-bitmap/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/trace-bitmap) |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/pixel-io-netpbm/)

```ts
import * as pbm from "@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm";
import * as fs from "fs";

const src = fs.readFileSync("a.pbm");
// <Buffer 50 34 0a 23 20 67 65 6e 65 72 61 74 65 64 20 62 79...>

// parse image header data
// P4 type => 1bit bitmap
pbm.parseHeader(src)
// {
//     type: 'P4',
//     width: 12,
//     height: 8,
//     max: undefined,
//     start: 47,
//     comments: [ 'generated by @thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm' ]
// }

const img = pbm.read(src);
// IntBuffer {
//   width: 12,
//   height: 8,
//   format: [Object],
//   data: Uint8Array(96) [
//     255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255,
//     255, 255, 255,   0,   0, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255,   0, 255,
//     255, 255,   0,   0,   0,   0, 255, 255, 255,   0,   0, 255,
//     255,   0,   0, 255, 255,   0,   0, 255,   0,   0,   0, 255,
//     255,   0,   0,   0,   0,   0,   0, 255,   0,   0,   0, 255,
//     255,   0,   0, 255, 255,   0,   0, 255, 255,   0,   0, 255,
//     255,   0,   0, 255, 255,   0,   0, 255, 255, 255,   0, 255,
//     255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255
//   ]
// }

// convert to RGB image and export w/ additional meta data
// (will be stored in PBM header comments)
fs.writeFileSync(
    "a-rgb.ppm",
    pbm.asPPM(
        img.as(RGB888),
        [
            "@prefix dc: http://purl.org/dc/terms/",
            "dc:created 2021-02-08",
            "dc:creator toxi"
        ]
    )
);
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-pixel-io-netpbm,
  title = "@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm",
  year = 2021
}
```

## License

&copy; 2021 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

docs: update readmes (CFP survey header)

packages/pixel-io-netpbm/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->
> [!IMPORTANT]
> ‼️ Announcing the thi.ng user survey 2024 📋
>
> [Please participate in the survey here!](https://forms.gle/XacbSDEmQMPZg8197)\
> (open until end of February)
>
> **To achieve a better sample size, I'd highly appreciate if you could
> circulate the link to this survey in your own networks.**
>
> [Discussion](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/discussions/447)

# ![@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-pixel-io-netpbm.svg?c4ef1813)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Multi-format NetPBM reader & writer support for [@thi.ng/pixel](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/pixel).

This package can read & write binary
[NetPBM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netpbm) image formats from byte
arrays/buffers to
[@thi.ng/pixel](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/pixel)
pixel buffers (aka `PackedBuffer`).

|      Source format | Destination format    | Rec. file extension<sup>(1)</sup> |
|-------------------:|-----------------------|-----------------------------------|
|              1 bit | `GRAY8`<sup>(2)</sup> | `.pbm`                            |
|  2-8 bit grayscale | `GRAY8`               | `.pgm`                            |
| 9-16 bit grayscale | `GRAY16`              | `.pgm`                            |
|         24 bit RGB | `ARGB8888`            | `.ppm`                            |

<sup>(1)</sup> no relevance to actual parse/export logic
<sup>(2)</sup> currently no support for actual 1-bit pixel buffers

Furthermore the `parseHeader()` function can be used to just extract image type,
size and other meta data (from comments), without parsing the full image.

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bpixel-io-netpbm%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const pixelIoNetpbm = await import("@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 1.24 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/pixel](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/pixel)

## Usage examples

One project in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory is using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                          | Description                                            | Live demo                                          | Source                                                                          |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/trace-bitmap.jpg" width="240"/> | Multi-layer vectorization & dithering of bitmap images | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/trace-bitmap/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/trace-bitmap) |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/pixel-io-netpbm/)

```ts
import * as pbm from "@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm";
import * as fs from "fs";

const src = fs.readFileSync("a.pbm");
// <Buffer 50 34 0a 23 20 67 65 6e 65 72 61 74 65 64 20 62 79...>

// parse image header data
// P4 type => 1bit bitmap
pbm.parseHeader(src)
// {
//     type: 'P4',
//     width: 12,
//     height: 8,
//     max: undefined,
//     start: 47,
//     comments: [ 'generated by @thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm' ]
// }

const img = pbm.read(src);
// IntBuffer {
//   width: 12,
//   height: 8,
//   format: [Object],
//   data: Uint8Array(96) [
//     255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255,
//     255, 255, 255,   0,   0, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255,   0, 255,
//     255, 255,   0,   0,   0,   0, 255, 255, 255,   0,   0, 255,
//     255,   0,   0, 255, 255,   0,   0, 255,   0,   0,   0, 255,
//     255,   0,   0,   0,   0,   0,   0, 255,   0,   0,   0, 255,
//     255,   0,   0, 255, 255,   0,   0, 255, 255,   0,   0, 255,
//     255,   0,   0, 255, 255,   0,   0, 255, 255, 255,   0, 255,
//     255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255, 255
//   ]
// }

// convert to RGB image and export w/ additional meta data
// (will be stored in PBM header comments)
fs.writeFileSync(
    "a-rgb.ppm",
    pbm.asPPM(
        img.as(RGB888),
        [
            "@prefix dc: http://purl.org/dc/terms/",
            "dc:created 2021-02-08",
            "dc:creator toxi"
        ]
    )
);
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-pixel-io-netpbm,
  title = "@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm",
  year = 2021
}
```

## License

&copy; 2021 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0
