packages/ksuid/tpl.readme.md, before:

<!-- include ../../assets/tpl/header.md -->

<!-- toc -->

## About

{{pkg.description}}

Idea based on [segmentio/ksuid](https://github.com/segmentio/ksuid), though the
added flexibility in terms of configuration & implementation also enables the
creation of [ULIDs](https://github.com/ulid/spec):

| Feature                               | KSUID default          | ULID default           |
|---------------------------------------|------------------------|------------------------|
| Configurable bit size                 | 160 bits               | 128 bits               |
| Base-N encoding scheme                | base62<sup>(1)</sup>   | base32 (Crockford)     |
| Timestamp resolution                  | seconds (32 bits)      | milliseconds (48 bits) |
|                                       | milliseconds (64 bits) |                        |
| Epoch start time offset               | approx. 2020-09-13     | none                   |
| Time-only base ID generation          | ✅                      | ✅                      |
| ID parsing / decomposition            | ✅                      | ✅                      |
| Configurable RNG source<sup>(2)</sup> | ✅                      | ✅                      |

- <sup>(1)</sup> See
  [@thi.ng/base-n](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/base-n)
  for alternatives
- <sup>(2)</sup> Default: `window.crypto`, `Math.random` as fallback

IDs generated w/ this package are composed of a 32, 48 or 64 bit Unix epochs (by
default time shifted to free up bits for future timestamps) and N additional
bits of a random payload (from a configurable source). IDs can be generated as
byte arrays or base-N encoded strings. For the latter, the JS runtime MUST
support
[`BigInt`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt).

![KSUID bit layout diagram](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/ksuid/ksuid.png)

{{meta.status}}

### Breaking changes

Since v3.0.0 all
[`epoch`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/ksuid/interfaces/KSUIDOpts.html#epoch)
time-shift config values are to be given in milliseconds. This change is
unifying this behavior and is only a breaking change if using `KSUID32` and
specifying custom `epoch` offsets (using defaults is **not** impacted).
Previously, `KSUID32` used an offset given in seconds, whereas the other
implementations already used milliseconds.

{{repo.supportPackages}}

{{repo.relatedPackages}}

{{meta.blogPosts}}

## Installation

{{pkg.install}}

{{pkg.size}}

## Dependencies

{{pkg.deps}}

{{repo.examples}}

## API

{{pkg.docs}}

```ts
import { defKSUID32, defKSUID64, defULID } from "@thi.ng/ksuid";

// init 32bit epoch (resolution: seconds) w/ defaults
const id = defKSUID32();
// init 64bit epoch (resolution: milliseconds), same API
const id = defKSUID64();
// init 48bit epoch (resolution: milliseconds), same API
const id = defULID();

id.next();
// '05XCWbXa3akRqLDBUw4ogCVKGkd'

const a = id.nextBinary()
// Uint8Array(20) [
//     0, 160,  48, 77, 101, 251,
//   244,  17, 155, 97,  24, 101,
//    70,  71, 207, 23,  32,  21,
//   244, 116
// ]

// format a binary KSUID
id.format(a);
// '05XCZ32AaDZfZt0SWE2C22o6cqK'

id.parse("05XCZ32AaDZfZt0SWE2C22o6cqK")
// {
//   epoch: 1610498125000,
//   id: Uint8Array(16) [
//     101, 251, 244,  17, 155, 97,
//      24, 101,  70,  71, 207, 23,
//      32,  21, 244, 116
//   ]
// }

new Date(1610498125000).toISOString()
// '2021-01-13T00:35:25.000Z'
```

Creating custom IDs:

```ts
import { BASE36 } from "@thi.ng/base-n";

// no time shift, 64bit random
const id36 = defKSUID32({ base: BASE36, epoch: 0, bytes: 8 });

id32.next();
// '2VOUKH4K59AG0RXR4XH'
```

## Benchmarks

```text
yarn bench

benchmarking: b62, 128bit, n=10000
        warmup... 659.22ms (10 runs)
        executing...
        total: 6402.18ms, runs: 100
        mean: 64.02ms, median: 63.50ms, range: [59.98..96.15]
        q1: 62.64ms, q3: 64.41ms
        sd: 6.93%
benchmarking: b62, 64bit, n=10000
        warmup... 363.35ms (10 runs)
        executing...
        total: 3469.28ms, runs: 100
        mean: 34.69ms, median: 34.41ms, range: [32.61..56.58]
        q1: 33.35ms, q3: 35.41ms
        sd: 7.47%
benchmarking: b62, 32bit, n=10000
        warmup... 218.78ms (10 runs)
        executing...
        total: 2118.93ms, runs: 100
        mean: 21.19ms, median: 20.95ms, range: [20.20..25.74]
        q1: 20.71ms, q3: 21.30ms
        sd: 4.14%
```

<!-- include ../../assets/tpl/footer.md -->

Commit message:

docs(ksuid): update readme (add CLI section)

packages/ksuid/tpl.readme.md, after:

<!-- include ../../assets/tpl/header.md -->

<!-- toc -->

## About

{{pkg.description}}

Idea based on [segmentio/ksuid](https://github.com/segmentio/ksuid), though the
added flexibility in terms of configuration & implementation also enables the
creation of [ULIDs](https://github.com/ulid/spec):

| Feature                               | KSUID default          | ULID default           |
|---------------------------------------|------------------------|------------------------|
| Configurable bit size                 | 160 bits               | 128 bits               |
| Base-N encoding scheme                | base62<sup>(1)</sup>   | base32 (Crockford)     |
| Timestamp resolution                  | seconds (32 bits)      | milliseconds (48 bits) |
|                                       | milliseconds (64 bits) |                        |
| Epoch start time offset               | approx. 2020-09-13     | none                   |
| Time-only base ID generation          | ✅                      | ✅                      |
| ID parsing / decomposition            | ✅                      | ✅                      |
| Configurable RNG source<sup>(2)</sup> | ✅                      | ✅                      |

- <sup>(1)</sup> See
  [@thi.ng/base-n](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/base-n)
  for alternatives
- <sup>(2)</sup> Default: `window.crypto`, `Math.random` as fallback

IDs generated w/ this package are composed of a 32, 48 or 64 bit Unix epochs and
N additional bits of a random payload (from a configurable source). By default
all timestamps are shifted to free up bits for the future. IDs can be generated
as byte arrays or base-N encoded strings. For the latter, the JS runtime MUST
support
[`BigInt`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt).

![KSUID bit layout diagram](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/ksuid/ksuid.png)

### CLI usage

Since v3.1.0 a small CLI for ad-hoc KSUID generation is included. Currently only
KSUID32 is supported and IDs are always based on the current time:

```bash
npx @thi.ng/ksuid
# 0dwncLZE8byaQdccncWDmsNmlYt

# optionally provide number of random bytes to be used (default: 16)
npx @thi.ng/ksuid 8
# 01ogp9KDpWlQ0pXCY
```

{{meta.status}}

### Breaking changes

Since v3.0.0 all
[`epoch`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/ksuid/interfaces/KSUIDOpts.html#epoch)
time-shift config values are to be given in milliseconds. This change is
unifying this behavior and is only a breaking change if using `KSUID32` and
specifying custom `epoch` offsets (using defaults is **not** impacted).
Previously, `KSUID32` used an offset given in seconds, whereas the other
implementations already used milliseconds.

{{repo.supportPackages}}

{{repo.relatedPackages}}

{{meta.blogPosts}}

## Installation

{{pkg.install}}

{{pkg.size}}

## Dependencies

{{pkg.deps}}

{{repo.examples}}

## API

{{pkg.docs}}

```ts
import { defKSUID32, defKSUID64, defULID } from "@thi.ng/ksuid";

// init 32bit epoch (resolution: seconds) w/ defaults
const id = defKSUID32();
// init 64bit epoch (resolution: milliseconds), same API
const id = defKSUID64();
// init 48bit epoch (resolution: milliseconds), same API
const id = defULID();

id.next();
// '05XCWbXa3akRqLDBUw4ogCVKGkd'

const a = id.nextBinary()
// Uint8Array(20) [
//     0, 160,  48, 77, 101, 251,
//   244,  17, 155, 97,  24, 101,
//    70,  71, 207, 23,  32,  21,
//   244, 116
// ]

// format a binary KSUID
id.format(a);
// '05XCZ32AaDZfZt0SWE2C22o6cqK'

id.parse("05XCZ32AaDZfZt0SWE2C22o6cqK")
// {
//   epoch: 1610498125000,
//   id: Uint8Array(16) [
//     101, 251, 244,  17, 155, 97,
//      24, 101,  70,  71, 207, 23,
//      32,  21, 244, 116
//   ]
// }

new Date(1610498125000).toISOString()
// '2021-01-13T00:35:25.000Z'
```

Creating custom IDs:

```ts
import { BASE36 } from "@thi.ng/base-n";

// no time shift, 64bit random
const id36 = defKSUID32({ base: BASE36, epoch: 0, bytes: 8 });

id32.next();
// '2VOUKH4K59AG0RXR4XH'
```

## Benchmarks

```text
yarn bench

benchmarking: b62, 128bit, n=10000
        warmup... 659.22ms (10 runs)
        executing...
        total: 6402.18ms, runs: 100
        mean: 64.02ms, median: 63.50ms, range: [59.98..96.15]
        q1: 62.64ms, q3: 64.41ms
        sd: 6.93%
benchmarking: b62, 64bit, n=10000
        warmup... 363.35ms (10 runs)
        executing...
        total: 3469.28ms, runs: 100
        mean: 34.69ms, median: 34.41ms, range: [32.61..56.58]
        q1: 33.35ms, q3: 35.41ms
        sd: 7.47%
benchmarking: b62, 32bit, n=10000
        warmup... 218.78ms (10 runs)
        executing...
        total: 2118.93ms, runs: 100
        mean: 21.19ms, median: 20.95ms, range: [20.20..25.74]
        q1: 20.71ms, q3: 21.30ms
        sd: 4.14%
```

<!-- include ../../assets/tpl/footer.md -->
