packages/unionstruct/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/unionstruct](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-unionstruct.svg?c0beeb99)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/unionstruct.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/unionstruct)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/unionstruct.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [API](#api)
  - [union](#union)
  - [struct](#struct)
  - [sizeOf](#sizeof)
  - [Alignment](#alignment)
  - [Bitfields](#bitfields)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

C-style struct, union and bitfield read/write views of ArrayBuffers.

Features:

- Construct memory mapped JS objects based on given typedef specs
- Nested structs & unions
- Packed bitfields (signed / unsigned)
- Auto-alignment of fields to respective word boundaries (can be
  disabled)
- Configurable endianness (bitfields currently assume network order / big
  endian)
- No runtime dependencies, works in node & browser
- Small: 2.35KB minified, 1.14KB gzipped

Currently does not support array fields (incl. strings).

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bunionstruct%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/unionstruct
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/unionstruct"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const unionstruct = await import("@thi.ng/unionstruct");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 1006 bytes

## Dependencies

None

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/unionstruct/)

```ts
import { struct, union, sizeOf } from "@thi.ng/unionstruct";
```

C-style union types define alternate views of the same data. For example
this C snippet below defines such a type, of which the first 32-bits can
be accessed either via individual bitfields or as combined value. Fields
in this union type can be accessed like `x.flags` (combined) or
`x.state.cache` (only bits 9-11 of `x.flags`). Since all views share the
same memory, value changes of one view are reflected in all others too
(of course updating bitfields only modifies a field's allocated bit
range).

```c
// C
typedef union {
    uint32_t flags;
    struct {
        uint32_t type : 9;
        uint32_t cache : 3;
        uint32_t enabled : 1;
        uint32_t visible : 1;
        uint32_t selected : 1;
        uint32_t locked : 1;
        int32_t scheduled : 18;
        uint16_t tag;
    } state;
} Header;
```

This library provides this similarly in JS. The field spec format,
bitfields and alignment are described further below.

```ts
typedef_header = [
    ["flags", "u32"],
    ["state", "struct", [
        ["type", "u32", 9],
        ["cache", "u32", 3],
        ["enabled", "u32", 1],
        ["visible", "u32", 1],
        ["selected", "u32", 1],
        ["locked", "u32", 1],
        ["scheduled", "i32", 18],
        ["tag", "u16"]]]
];

// pre-loaded binary data
buf = new Uint32Array([0x807cc0, 0x40000000, 0x3930]);

// create instance, see list of header arguments below
header = union(typedef_header, buf.buffer);
// { __buffer: ArrayBuffer { byteLength: 12 },
//   __spec: [['flags', 'u32'], ['state', 'struct', [...]]],
//   __size: 80,
//   __offsets: { flags: 0, state: 0 },
//   flags: [Getter/Setter],
//   state: [Getter] }

header.state
// { __buffer: ArrayBuffer { byteLength: 12 },
//   __spec: [...],
//   __size: 80,
//   __offsets:
//    { type: 0,
//      cache: 9,
//      enabled: 12,
//      visible: 13,
//      selected: 14,
//      locked: 15,
//      scheduled: 16,
//      tag: 64 },
// ... }

header.flags.toString(16) // "c07c8000"
header.state.type         // 384
header.state.enabled      // 1
header.state.visible      // 1
header.state.selected     // 0
header.state.locked       // 0
header.state.scheduled    // -131072
header.state.tag          // 12345
```

### union

`union(spec: Field[], buf?: ArrayBuffer, offset = 0, align = true, littleEndian = false) => any`

Takes an array of field specs (as in example above) and optional
ArrayBuffer, offset etc. If no buffer is given, constructs a new one
with minimum size required by this field spec. Returns an object with
enumerable field accessors and the following additional keys (largely
for introspection purposes):

- `__buffer` - backing ArrayBuffer instance
- `__offsets` - **bit offset** in buffer for each field
- `__spec` - original field spec array provided
- `__size` - computed **bit size** of whole type

All top-level fields in a union share the same start address. Also see
note about [alignment](#alignment) below.

### struct

`struct(spec: Field[], buf?: ArrayBuffer, offset = 0, align = true, littleEndian = false) => any`

Same as `union`, but field start addresses are arranged sequentially (and aligned individually).

### sizeOf

`sizeOf(spec: Field[], union = false, doAlign = true) => number`

Returns bit size of given field spec, taking into account alignment.

```ts
// struct
sizeOf([["a", "u32", 14], ["b", "u32", 6], ["c","u8"]]);
// 40

// union
sizeOf([["a", "u32", 14], ["b", "u32", 6], ["c","u8"]], true);
// 14

```

### Alignment

For unions, if `align` is enabled (default), the entire type's offset
will be aligned to the largest required width. E.g. If any of the
top-level fields is of type `f64`, alignment will be to 8-byte
boundaries. If the union contains nested types, they will be checked
recursively and aligned to largest type found (for structs only the
first field has an impact on whole struct alignment).

| Type      | Alignment |
|-----------|----------:|
| f64       |         8 |
| f32       |         4 |
| u32 / i32 |         4 |
| u16 / i16 |         2 |
| u8 / i8   |         1 |

### Bitfields

Bitfields can only use integer types and support both signed / unsigned
flavors. Successive bitfields are densely packed (no alignment in
between). The max. width of a single field is 32 bits, but an arbitrary
number of successive bitfields can be defined.

If `align` is enabled and the last bitfield in a group does not end at a
word boundary, the field will be padded invisibly, based on its type
(has no impact on size of last field).

```ts
bitfields = struct([
    // 2 packed bitfields (20 bits)
    ["a", "u32", 14],
    ["b", "u32", 6],
    // 32 - 20 = 12 bit padding here
    ["c", "u8"] // providing no bit width forces alignment
]);

bitfields.__offsets
// { a: 0, b: 14, c: 32 }

// without padding, field `c` would incorrectly start at bit offset 24
// (since u8 aligns itself to 8-bit boundaries)
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-unionstruct,
  title = "@thi.ng/unionstruct",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/unionstruct",
  year = 2017
}
```

## License

&copy; 2017 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

docs: update readmes (CFP survey header)

packages/unionstruct/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->
> [!IMPORTANT]
> ‼️ Announcing the thi.ng user survey 2024 📋
>
> [Please participate in the survey here!](https://forms.gle/XacbSDEmQMPZg8197)\
> (open until end of February)
>
> **To achieve a better sample size, I'd highly appreciate if you could
> circulate the link to this survey in your own networks.**
>
> [Discussion](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/discussions/447)

# ![@thi.ng/unionstruct](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-unionstruct.svg?c0beeb99)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/unionstruct.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/unionstruct)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/unionstruct.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [API](#api)
  - [union](#union)
  - [struct](#struct)
  - [sizeOf](#sizeof)
  - [Alignment](#alignment)
  - [Bitfields](#bitfields)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

C-style struct, union and bitfield read/write views of ArrayBuffers.

Features:

- Construct memory mapped JS objects based on given typedef specs
- Nested structs & unions
- Packed bitfields (signed / unsigned)
- Auto-alignment of fields to respective word boundaries (can be
  disabled)
- Configurable endianness (bitfields currently assume network order / big
  endian)
- No runtime dependencies, works in node & browser
- Small: 2.35KB minified, 1.14KB gzipped

Currently does not support array fields (incl. strings).

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bunionstruct%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/unionstruct
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/unionstruct"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const unionstruct = await import("@thi.ng/unionstruct");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 1006 bytes

## Dependencies

None

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/unionstruct/)

```ts
import { struct, union, sizeOf } from "@thi.ng/unionstruct";
```

C-style union types define alternate views of the same data. For example
this C snippet below defines such a type, of which the first 32-bits can
be accessed either via individual bitfields or as combined value. Fields
in this union type can be accessed like `x.flags` (combined) or
`x.state.cache` (only bits 9-11 of `x.flags`). Since all views share the
same memory, value changes of one view are reflected in all others too
(of course updating bitfields only modifies a field's allocated bit
range).

```c
// C
typedef union {
    uint32_t flags;
    struct {
        uint32_t type : 9;
        uint32_t cache : 3;
        uint32_t enabled : 1;
        uint32_t visible : 1;
        uint32_t selected : 1;
        uint32_t locked : 1;
        int32_t scheduled : 18;
        uint16_t tag;
    } state;
} Header;
```

This library provides this similarly in JS. The field spec format,
bitfields and alignment are described further below.

```ts
typedef_header = [
    ["flags", "u32"],
    ["state", "struct", [
        ["type", "u32", 9],
        ["cache", "u32", 3],
        ["enabled", "u32", 1],
        ["visible", "u32", 1],
        ["selected", "u32", 1],
        ["locked", "u32", 1],
        ["scheduled", "i32", 18],
        ["tag", "u16"]]]
];

// pre-loaded binary data
buf = new Uint32Array([0x807cc0, 0x40000000, 0x3930]);

// create instance, see list of header arguments below
header = union(typedef_header, buf.buffer);
// { __buffer: ArrayBuffer { byteLength: 12 },
//   __spec: [['flags', 'u32'], ['state', 'struct', [...]]],
//   __size: 80,
//   __offsets: { flags: 0, state: 0 },
//   flags: [Getter/Setter],
//   state: [Getter] }

header.state
// { __buffer: ArrayBuffer { byteLength: 12 },
//   __spec: [...],
//   __size: 80,
//   __offsets:
//    { type: 0,
//      cache: 9,
//      enabled: 12,
//      visible: 13,
//      selected: 14,
//      locked: 15,
//      scheduled: 16,
//      tag: 64 },
// ... }

header.flags.toString(16) // "c07c8000"
header.state.type         // 384
header.state.enabled      // 1
header.state.visible      // 1
header.state.selected     // 0
header.state.locked       // 0
header.state.scheduled    // -131072
header.state.tag          // 12345
```

### union

`union(spec: Field[], buf?: ArrayBuffer, offset = 0, align = true, littleEndian = false) => any`

Takes an array of field specs (as in example above) and optional
ArrayBuffer, offset etc. If no buffer is given, constructs a new one
with minimum size required by this field spec. Returns an object with
enumerable field accessors and the following additional keys (largely
for introspection purposes):

- `__buffer` - backing ArrayBuffer instance
- `__offsets` - **bit offset** in buffer for each field
- `__spec` - original field spec array provided
- `__size` - computed **bit size** of whole type

All top-level fields in a union share the same start address. Also see
note about [alignment](#alignment) below.

### struct

`struct(spec: Field[], buf?: ArrayBuffer, offset = 0, align = true, littleEndian = false) => any`

Same as `union`, but field start addresses are arranged sequentially (and aligned individually).

### sizeOf

`sizeOf(spec: Field[], union = false, doAlign = true) => number`

Returns bit size of given field spec, taking into account alignment.

```ts
// struct
sizeOf([["a", "u32", 14], ["b", "u32", 6], ["c","u8"]]);
// 40

// union
sizeOf([["a", "u32", 14], ["b", "u32", 6], ["c","u8"]], true);
// 14

```

### Alignment

For unions, if `align` is enabled (default), the entire type's offset
will be aligned to the largest required width. E.g. If any of the
top-level fields is of type `f64`, alignment will be to 8-byte
boundaries. If the union contains nested types, they will be checked
recursively and aligned to largest type found (for structs only the
first field has an impact on whole struct alignment).

| Type      | Alignment |
|-----------|----------:|
| f64       |         8 |
| f32       |         4 |
| u32 / i32 |         4 |
| u16 / i16 |         2 |
| u8 / i8   |         1 |

### Bitfields

Bitfields can only use integer types and support both signed / unsigned
flavors. Successive bitfields are densely packed (no alignment in
between). The max. width of a single field is 32 bits, but an arbitrary
number of successive bitfields can be defined.

If `align` is enabled and the last bitfield in a group does not end at a
word boundary, the field will be padded invisibly, based on its type
(has no impact on size of last field).

```ts
bitfields = struct([
    // 2 packed bitfields (20 bits)
    ["a", "u32", 14],
    ["b", "u32", 6],
    // 32 - 20 = 12 bit padding here
    ["c", "u8"] // providing no bit width forces alignment
]);

bitfields.__offsets
// { a: 0, b: 14, c: 32 }

// without padding, field `c` would incorrectly start at bit offset 24
// (since u8 aligns itself to 8-bit boundaries)
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-unionstruct,
  title = "@thi.ng/unionstruct",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/unionstruct",
  year = 2017
}
```

## License

&copy; 2017 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0
