packages/hiccup-carbon-icons/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->

# ![hiccup-carbon-icons](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners/thing-hiccup-carbon-icons.svg?ff8f7718)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/hiccup-carbon-icons.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/hiccup-carbon-icons)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/hiccup-carbon-icons.svg)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/thing_umbrella.svg?style=flat-square&label=twitter)](https://twitter.com/thing_umbrella)

This project is part of the
[@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo.

- [About](#about)
- [Contact sheet](#contact-sheet)
  - [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
- [Icon conversion process](#icon-conversion-process)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

This package provides the full set of IBM's [Carbon
icons](https://github.com/IBM/carbon-icons) in hiccup format (i.e. as
Javascript encoded SVG), ready to be used with
[@thi.ng/hdom](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hdom)
/
[@thi.ng/hiccup](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup).

Each icon is defined in its own source file and can be imported
individually. The converted icons DO NOT have a fixed size and will
expand to the available size (see example below).

## Contact sheet

All icons can be previewed here: [contact
sheet](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/hiccup-carbon-icons/). ([Source
code](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup-carbon-icons/test/contact-sheet.ts))

### Status

**STABLE** - used in production

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/hiccup-carbon-icons
```

```html
// ES module
<script type="module" src="https://unpkg.com/@thi.ng/hiccup-carbon-icons?module" crossorigin></script>

// UMD
<script src="https://unpkg.com/@thi.ng/hiccup-carbon-icons/lib/index.umd.js" crossorigin></script>
```

Package sizes (gzipped, pre-treeshake): ESM: 16.41 KB / CJS: 16.93 KB / UMD: 16.15 KB

## Dependencies

- [tslib](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/undefined)

## Usage examples

Several demos in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package.

A selection:

| Screenshot                                                                                                              | Description                                           | Live demo                                              | Source                                                                              |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/parse-playground.png" width="240"/> | Parser grammar livecoding editor/playground & codegen | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/parse-playground/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/parse-playground) |
|                                                                                                                         | rdom drag & drop example                              | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/rdom-dnd/)         | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/rdom-dnd)         |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/hiccup-carbon-icons/)

```ts
import { renderOnce } from "@thi.ng/hdom";
import { CODE } from "@thi.ng/hiccup-carbon-icons";

// using tachyons css classes for brevity
const iconButton = (icon, onclick, label?) =>
    ["a", { onclick, href: "#" },
        ["span.dib.w1.h1.mr1", icon],
        label];

renderOnce(iconButton(CODE, () => alert("hi"), "show me the code"));
```

## Icon conversion process

The icon conversion is largely automated via the supplied bash script
(currently with some additional minor manual cleanup needed) and
requires `svgo` and a checkout of both the original carbon-icons repo
and the umbrella mono repo.

```bash
# install pre-requisites
yarn global add svgo

git clone https://github.com/IBM/carbon-icons.git
git clone https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella.git

# build xml to hiccup converter CLI tool
cd umbrella/examples/xml-converter
yarn install
yarn build-cli

# switch to package root
cd ../../hiccup-carbon-icons
# convert icons and write results to package src folder
./convert-icons src ../../carbon-icons/src/svg/*.svg

# update contact sheet (will be written to package root)
yarn test

# open in browser
open contact-sheet.html

# rebuild package
yarn build
```

## Authors

Karsten Schmidt

## License

&copy; 2018 - 2020 Karsten Schmidt // Apache Software License 2.0

Commit message:

feat(hiccup-carbon-icons): add/update all icons
BREAKING CHANGE: update all icons to latest carbon version

- some icons have been removed/replaced or renamed
- full set now counting ~1100 icons
- add new conversion script
- update readme

packages/hiccup-carbon-icons/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->

# ![hiccup-carbon-icons](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners/thing-hiccup-carbon-icons.svg?ff8f7718)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/hiccup-carbon-icons.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/hiccup-carbon-icons)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/hiccup-carbon-icons.svg)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/thing_umbrella.svg?style=flat-square&label=twitter)](https://twitter.com/thing_umbrella)

This project is part of the
[@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo.

- [About](#about)
- [Contact sheet](#contact-sheet)
  - [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
- [Icon conversion process](#icon-conversion-process)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

This package provides the full set of IBM's [Carbon
icons](https://github.com/IBM/carbon-icons) in hiccup format (i.e. as Javascript
encoded SVG), counting in at ~1100 and ready to be used within any
[@thi.ng/hiccup](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup)
supporting scenario.

Each icon is defined in its own source file and can be imported individually.
The converted icons are based on the 32x32 pixel versions, but have NO explicit
size set (only `viewBox` attrib). Use the `withSize()` helper to inject a size,
e.g. `withSize(DOWNLOAD, "12px")`.

## Contact sheet

All icons can be previewed here: [contact
sheet](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/hiccup-carbon-icons/). ([Source
code](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup-carbon-icons/test/contact-sheet.ts))

### Status

**STABLE** - used in production

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/hiccup-carbon-icons
```

```html
// ES module
<script type="module" src="https://unpkg.com/@thi.ng/hiccup-carbon-icons?module" crossorigin></script>

// UMD
<script src="https://unpkg.com/@thi.ng/hiccup-carbon-icons/lib/index.umd.js" crossorigin></script>
```

Package sizes (gzipped, pre-treeshake): ESM: 100.29 KB / CJS: 103.47 KB / UMD: 96.35 KB

## Dependencies

- [tslib](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/undefined)

## Usage examples

Several demos in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package.

A selection:

| Screenshot                                                                                                              | Description                                           | Live demo                                              | Source                                                                              |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/parse-playground.png" width="240"/> | Parser grammar livecoding editor/playground & codegen | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/parse-playground/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/parse-playground) |
|                                                                                                                         | rdom drag & drop example                              | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/rdom-dnd/)         | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/rdom-dnd)         |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/hiccup-carbon-icons/)

```ts
import { renderOnce } from "@thi.ng/hdom";
import { CODE } from "@thi.ng/hiccup-carbon-icons";

// using tachyons css classes for brevity
const iconButton = (icon, onclick, label?) =>
    ["a", { onclick, href: "#" },
        ["span.dib.w1.h1.mr1", icon],
        label];

renderOnce(iconButton(CODE, () => alert("hi"), "show me the code"));
```

## Icon conversion process

(For contributors only...)

The icon conversion is largely automated via the supplied bash script (currently
with some additional minor manual cleanup needed) and requires `svgo` and a
checkout of both the original carbon and the umbrella mono repos.

```bash
# install pre-requisites
yarn global add svgo

git clone https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella.git

# build entire umbrella repo
cd umbrella
yarn build

# build xml to hiccup converter CLI tool
cd examples/xml-converter
yarn build-cli

# switch to package root
cd ../../hiccup-carbon-icons

# clone carbon repo into local temp dir
git clone https://github.com/carbon-design-system/carbon.git tmp
# convert icons and write results to package src folder
npx ts-node -P tools/tsconfig.json tools/convert-icons.ts src tmp/packages/icons/src/svg/32

# update contact sheet (will be written to package root)
npx ts-node -P tools/tsconfig.json tools/contact-sheet.ts

# open in browser
open contact-sheet.html

# fixup any conversion issues (rinse & repeat...)
# e.g. in the latest version, several icons use paths w/ opacity=0 which need to be removed

# rebuild package
yarn build
```

## Authors

Karsten Schmidt

## License

The copyright of the original icons is with IBM. The icons were published under
the same license as this package.

&copy; 2018 - 2020 Karsten Schmidt // Apache Software License 2.0
