packages/meta-css/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/meta-css](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-meta-css.svg?36f6c755)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/meta-css.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/meta-css)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/meta-css.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

This project is part of the
[@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo and anti-framework.

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [CLI](#cli)
  - [Basic usage example](#basic-usage-example)
  - [Generating framework code for bundled base definitions](#generating-framework-code-for-bundled-base-definitions)
  - [Generating CSS from meta specs](#generating-css-from-meta-specs)
    - [index.html](#indexhtml)
    - [\*.meta stylesheets](#meta-stylesheets)
    - [Resulting CSS output](#resulting-css-output)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Data-driven CSS component & framework codegen.

This package provides CLI multi-tool to:

1. Generate entire CSS frameworks from a number of JSON specs. These specs can
   incude arbitrary media queries (all combinable), arbitrary lookup tables for
   colors, margins, sizes, timings etc. This process generates all combinatorial
   versions of various rules/declarations and exports them as another JSON files
   to be used for phase 2:
2. Compile & bundle actual CSS from MetaCSS stylesheets. These specs support
   selector nesting and compose full CSS rules from lists of the utility classes
   generated in step 1. Selectors, declarations and media query criteria will be
   deduplicated and merged from multiple input files. Each item (utility class
   name) can be prefixed with an arbitrary number of media query IDs. The
   resulting CSS will only contain referenced rules and can be generated in
   minified or pretty printed formats.

Final CSS generation itself is handled by
[thi.ng/hiccup-css](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/a0fa6d715f1b9e3edb405cfb42c03daefec340b4/packages/hiccup-css/)

The generator specs for a basic, configurable framework are in
[base-specs.json](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/meta-css/specs/base-specs.json)...

**👷🏻 This is all WIP!** See example below for general usage...

## Status

**ALPHA** - bleeding edge / work-in-progress

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bmeta-css%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/hiccup-css](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup-css) - CSS from nested JS data structures

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/meta-css
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/meta-css"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const metaCss = await import("@thi.ng/meta-css");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 2.16 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/args](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/args)
- [@thi.ng/arrays](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/arrays)
- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/file-io](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/file-io)
- [@thi.ng/hiccup-css](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup-css)
- [@thi.ng/logger](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/logger)
- [@thi.ng/text-format](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/text-format)
- [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)

## CLI

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/meta-css/)

### Basic usage example

The `metacss` tool provides multiple commands. You can install & run it like so:

```text
npx @thi.ng/meta-css --help

 █ █   █           │
██ █               │
 █ █ █ █   █ █ █ █ │ @thi.ng/meta-css 0.0.1
 █ █ █ █ █ █ █ █ █ │ Data-driven CSS component & framework codegen
                 █ │
               █ █ │

Usage: metacss <cmd> [opts] input [...]
Usage: metacss <cmd> --help

Available commands:

convert         : Convert meta declarations to CSS
generate        : Generate MetaCSS specs

Flags:

-v, --verbose           Display extra process information

Main:

-o STR, --out STR       Output file (or stdout)
```

### Generating framework code for bundled base definitions

To create a custom framework, we first need to generate CSS utility classes from
given JSON generator specs. For simplicity these will be stored as JSON too and
then used as lookup tables for actual CSS translation in the next step.

```bash
# write generated CSS classes (in JSON)
metacss generate --out src/framework.json node_modules/@thi.ng/meta-css/specs/base-specs.json
```

### Generating CSS from meta specs

Simple HTML example using custom MetaCSS styles (generated below):

#### index.html

```html tangle:export/index.html
<!doctype html>
<html>
    <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="bundle.css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="app" class="bt-group-v">
            <a href="#">One</a>
            <a href="#">Two</a>
            <a href="#">Three</a>
            <a href="#">Four</a>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
```

#### \*.meta stylesheets

The naming convention used by the [default framework
specs](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/meta-css/specs/base-specs.json)
so far is loosely/partially based on [tachyons.io](https://tachyons.io), with
the important difference of media query handling. Here, any class token can be
prefixed with an _arbitrary_ number of media query IDs (separated by `:`). These
media queries are defined as part of the initial JSON specs and when used as a
prefix, multiple query IDs can be combined freely. E.g. the token
`dark:anim:bg-anim2` will auto-create a merged CSS `@media`-query block for the
query IDs `dark` and `anim` and only emit the definition of `bg-anim2` for this
combination (see generated CSS further below).

readme.meta:

```text tangle:export/readme.meta
body { ma0 dark:bg-black dark:white bg-white black }

#app { ma3 }

.bt-group-v > a {
    db w100 l:w50 ph3 pv2 bwb1
    dark:bg-dark-red dark:white dark:b--dark-gray
    light:bg-washed-red light:dark-red light:b--moon-gray
    {
        :hover { bg-gold black anim:bg-anim2 }
        :first-child { brt3 }
        :last-child { brb3 bwb0 }
    }
}
```

readme2.meta:

We will merge the definitions in this file with the ones from the file above
(i.e. adding & overriding some of the declarations):

```text tangle:export/readme.meta
#app { pa2 }

.bt-group-v > a {
    bwb3
    {
        :first-child { brt4 }
        :last-child { brb4 }
    }
}
```

```bash
# if not out dir is specified writes result to stdout
# use previously generated specs for resolving all identifiers & media queries
metacss convert --pretty --specs src/framework.json readme.meta readme2.meta
```

#### Resulting CSS output

```css
/*! generated by thi.ng/meta-css @ 2023-12-15T14:08:31.214Z */

body {
    margin: 0rem;
    background-color: #fff;
    color: #000;
}

#app {
    margin: 1rem;
    padding: 0.500rem;
}

.bt-group-v > a {
    display: block;
    width: 100%;
    padding-left: 1rem;
    padding-right: 1rem;
    padding-top: 0.500rem;
    padding-bottom: 0.500rem;
    border-bottom-style: solid;
    border-bottom-width: 0.500rem;
}

.bt-group-v > a:hover {
    background-color: #ffb700;
    color: #000;
}

.bt-group-v > a:first-child {
    border-top-left-radius: 1rem;
    border-top-right-radius: 1rem;
}

.bt-group-v > a:last-child {
    border-bottom-left-radius: 1rem;
    border-bottom-right-radius: 1rem;
    border-bottom-style: solid;
    border-bottom-width: 0rem;
}

@media (prefers-color-scheme:dark) {

    body {
        background-color: #000;
        color: #fff;
    }

    .bt-group-v > a {
        background-color: #e7040f;
        color: #fff;
        border-color: #333;
    }

}

@media (min-width:60rem) {

    .bt-group-v > a {
        width: 50%;
    }

}

@media (prefers-color-scheme:light) {

    .bt-group-v > a {
        background-color: #ffdfdf;
        color: #e7040f;
        border-color: #ccc;
    }

}

@media not (prefers-reduced-motion) {

    .bt-group-v > a:hover {
        transition: 0.2s background-color ease-in-out;
    }

}
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-meta-css,
  title = "@thi.ng/meta-css",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/meta-css",
  year = 2023
}
```

## License

&copy; 2023 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

docs(meta-css): update readme (install)

packages/meta-css/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/meta-css](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-meta-css.svg?36f6c755)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/meta-css.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/meta-css)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/meta-css.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

This project is part of the
[@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo and anti-framework.

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [CLI](#cli)
  - [Basic usage example](#basic-usage-example)
  - [Generating framework code for bundled base definitions](#generating-framework-code-for-bundled-base-definitions)
  - [Generating CSS from meta specs](#generating-css-from-meta-specs)
    - [index.html](#indexhtml)
    - [\*.meta stylesheets](#meta-stylesheets)
    - [Resulting CSS output](#resulting-css-output)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Data-driven CSS component & framework codegen.

This package provides CLI multi-tool to:

1. Generate entire CSS frameworks from a number of JSON specs. These specs can
   incude arbitrary media queries (all combinable), arbitrary lookup tables for
   colors, margins, sizes, timings etc. This process generates all combinatorial
   versions of various rules/declarations and exports them as another JSON files
   to be used for phase 2:
2. Compile & bundle actual CSS from MetaCSS stylesheets. These specs support
   selector nesting and compose full CSS rules from lists of the utility classes
   generated in step 1. Selectors, declarations and media query criteria will be
   deduplicated and merged from multiple input files. Each item (utility class
   name) can be prefixed with an arbitrary number of media query IDs. The
   resulting CSS will only contain referenced rules and can be generated in
   minified or pretty printed formats.

Final CSS generation itself is handled by
[thi.ng/hiccup-css](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/a0fa6d715f1b9e3edb405cfb42c03daefec340b4/packages/hiccup-css/)

The generator specs for a basic, configurable framework are in
[base-specs.json](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/meta-css/specs/base-specs.json)...

**👷🏻 This is all WIP!** See example below for general usage...

## Status

**ALPHA** - bleeding edge / work-in-progress

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bmeta-css%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/hiccup-css](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup-css) - CSS from nested JS data structures

## Installation

```bash
npx @thi.ng/meta-css --help
```

Distributed as CLI bundle with **no runtime dependencies**. The following
dependencies are used to and (partially) included in the bundle.

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 10.20 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/args](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/args)
- [@thi.ng/arrays](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/arrays)
- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/file-io](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/file-io)
- [@thi.ng/hiccup-css](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup-css)
- [@thi.ng/logger](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/logger)
- [@thi.ng/text-format](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/text-format)
- [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)

## CLI

### Basic usage example

The `metacss` tool provides multiple commands. You can install & run it like so:

```text
npx @thi.ng/meta-css --help

 █ █   █           │
██ █               │
 █ █ █ █   █ █ █ █ │ @thi.ng/meta-css 0.0.1
 █ █ █ █ █ █ █ █ █ │ Data-driven CSS component & framework codegen
                 █ │
               █ █ │

Usage: metacss <cmd> [opts] input [...]
Usage: metacss <cmd> --help

Available commands:

convert         : Convert meta declarations to CSS
generate        : Generate MetaCSS specs

Flags:

-v, --verbose           Display extra process information

Main:

-o STR, --out STR       Output file (or stdout)
```

### Generating framework code for bundled base definitions

To create a custom framework, we first need to generate CSS utility classes from
given JSON generator specs. For simplicity these will be stored as JSON too and
then used as lookup tables for actual CSS translation in the next step.

```bash
# write generated CSS classes (in JSON)
metacss generate --out src/framework.json node_modules/@thi.ng/meta-css/specs/base-specs.json
```

### Generating CSS from meta specs

Simple HTML example using custom MetaCSS styles (generated below):

#### index.html

```html tangle:export/index.html
<!doctype html>
<html>
    <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="bundle.css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="app" class="bt-group-v">
            <a href="#">One</a>
            <a href="#">Two</a>
            <a href="#">Three</a>
            <a href="#">Four</a>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
```

#### \*.meta stylesheets

The naming convention used by the [default framework
specs](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/meta-css/specs/base-specs.json)
so far is loosely/partially based on [tachyons.io](https://tachyons.io), with
the important difference of media query handling. Here, any class token can be
prefixed with an _arbitrary_ number of media query IDs (separated by `:`). These
media queries are defined as part of the initial JSON specs and when used as a
prefix, multiple query IDs can be combined freely. E.g. the token
`dark:anim:bg-anim2` will auto-create a merged CSS `@media`-query block for the
query IDs `dark` and `anim` and only emit the definition of `bg-anim2` for this
combination (see generated CSS further below).

readme.meta:

```text tangle:export/readme.meta
body { ma0 dark:bg-black dark:white bg-white black }

#app { ma3 }

.bt-group-v > a {
    db w100 l:w50 ph3 pv2 bwb1
    dark:bg-dark-red dark:white dark:b--dark-gray
    light:bg-washed-red light:dark-red light:b--moon-gray
    {
        :hover { bg-gold black anim:bg-anim2 }
        :first-child { brt3 }
        :last-child { brb3 bwb0 }
    }
}
```

readme2.meta:

We will merge the definitions in this file with the ones from the file above
(i.e. adding & overriding some of the declarations):

```text tangle:export/readme2.meta
#app { pa2 }

.bt-group-v > a {
    bwb3
    {
        :first-child { brt4 }
        :last-child { brb4 }
    }
}
```

```bash
# if not out dir is specified writes result to stdout
# use previously generated specs for resolving all identifiers & media queries
metacss convert --pretty --specs src/framework.json readme.meta readme2.meta
```

#### Resulting CSS output

```css
/*! generated by thi.ng/meta-css @ 2023-12-15T14:08:31.214Z */

body {
    margin: 0rem;
    background-color: #fff;
    color: #000;
}

#app {
    margin: 1rem;
    padding: 0.500rem;
}

.bt-group-v > a {
    display: block;
    width: 100%;
    padding-left: 1rem;
    padding-right: 1rem;
    padding-top: 0.500rem;
    padding-bottom: 0.500rem;
    border-bottom-style: solid;
    border-bottom-width: 0.500rem;
}

.bt-group-v > a:hover {
    background-color: #ffb700;
    color: #000;
}

.bt-group-v > a:first-child {
    border-top-left-radius: 1rem;
    border-top-right-radius: 1rem;
}

.bt-group-v > a:last-child {
    border-bottom-left-radius: 1rem;
    border-bottom-right-radius: 1rem;
    border-bottom-style: solid;
    border-bottom-width: 0rem;
}

@media (prefers-color-scheme:dark) {

    body {
        background-color: #000;
        color: #fff;
    }

    .bt-group-v > a {
        background-color: #e7040f;
        color: #fff;
        border-color: #333;
    }

}

@media (min-width:60rem) {

    .bt-group-v > a {
        width: 50%;
    }

}

@media (prefers-color-scheme:light) {

    .bt-group-v > a {
        background-color: #ffdfdf;
        color: #e7040f;
        border-color: #ccc;
    }

}

@media not (prefers-reduced-motion) {

    .bt-group-v > a:hover {
        transition: 0.2s background-color ease-in-out;
    }

}
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-meta-css,
  title = "@thi.ng/meta-css",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/meta-css",
  year = 2023
}
```

## License

&copy; 2023 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0
