packages/dcons/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->

# ![dcons](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners/thing-dcons.svg?018a956c)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/dcons.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/dcons)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/dcons.svg)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/thing_umbrella.svg?style=flat-square&label=twitter)](https://twitter.com/thing_umbrella)

This project is part of the
[@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo.

- [About](#about)
  - [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [API](#api)
  - [Head centric](#head-centric)
  - [Tail centric](#tail-centric)
  - [Random Access](#random-access)
  - [Insertion](#insertion)
  - [Finding](#finding)
  - [Structure](#structure)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Double-linked lists with comprehensive set of operations (incl. optional self-organizing behaviors).

- ES6 iterator support
- Stack & queue API (front and/or back)
- Random node access (read / write, O(n/2))
- Node insertion (also w/ custom comparator)
- Node finding (O(n))
- Node swaps (O(1))
- Reversing (O(n/2))
- Rotation (left / right) (O(1))
- Shuffling (configurable, support custom PRNG)
- Sorting (Merge sort, w/ custom comparator)
- Slicing (sublist copies)
- Splicing (delete and/or insert)
- `release()` (emptying, GC friendly)
- `concat()` / `into()`
- `map()` / `filter()` / `reduce()`
- `compare()` / `equiv()`
- `toJSON()` transform (-> array)

v2.3.0 adds [self-organizing list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-organizing_list)
types which re-order their items based on certain access patterns:

- `DConsMTF` / `defMTF()` - moves currently accessed element to front of list
- `DConsTranspose` / `defTranspose()` - swaps currently accessed element with its predecessor

Both types extend `DCons`. Only the following operations will trigger the
self-organizing behaviors:

- `nth()`
- `setNth()`
- `setTail()`
- `find()`
- `findWith()`

### Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+%5Bdcons%5D)

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/dcons
```

```html
// ES module
<script type="module" src="https://unpkg.com/@thi.ng/dcons?module" crossorigin></script>

// UMD
<script src="https://unpkg.com/@thi.ng/dcons/lib/index.umd.js" crossorigin></script>
```

Package sizes (gzipped, pre-treeshake): ESM: 2.18 KB / CJS: 2.27 KB / UMD: 2.36 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/compare](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/compare)
- [@thi.ng/equiv](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/equiv)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/random](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/random)
- [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/dcons/)

### Head centric

- `cons()`
- `first()`
- `drop()`
- `setHead()`

### Tail centric

- `into()`
- `push()`
- `peek()`
- `pop()`
- `setTail()`

### Random Access

- `.length`
- `nth()`
- `nthCell()`
- `setNth()`

### Insertion

- `insertBefore()`
- `insertAfter()`
- `insertBeforeNth()`
- `insertAfterNth()`
- `insertSorted()`

### Finding

- `find()`
- `findWith()`

### Structure

- `copy()`
- `concat()`
- `slice()`
- `splice()`
- `swap()`
- `shuffle()`
- `sort()`
- `reverse()`
- `rotateLeft()`
- `rotateRight()`
- `release()`

TODO

## Authors

Karsten Schmidt

## License

&copy; 2017 - 2020 Karsten Schmidt // Apache Software License 2.0

Commit message:

refactor(dcons): unify MTF/Transpose into SOL type

packages/dcons/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->

# ![dcons](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners/thing-dcons.svg?018a956c)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/dcons.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/dcons)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/dcons.svg)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/thing_umbrella.svg?style=flat-square&label=twitter)](https://twitter.com/thing_umbrella)

This project is part of the
[@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo.

- [About](#about)
  - [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [API](#api)
  - [Head centric](#head-centric)
  - [Tail centric](#tail-centric)
  - [Random Access](#random-access)
  - [Insertion](#insertion)
  - [Finding](#finding)
  - [Structure](#structure)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Double-linked lists with comprehensive set of operations (incl. optional self-organizing behaviors).

- ES6 iterator support
- Stack & queue API (front and/or back)
- Random node access (read / write, O(n/2))
- Node insertion (also w/ custom comparator)
- Node finding (O(n))
- Node swaps (O(1))
- Reversing (O(n/2))
- Rotation (left / right) (O(1))
- Shuffling (configurable, support custom PRNG)
- Sorting (Merge sort, w/ custom comparator)
- Slicing (sublist copies)
- Splicing (delete and/or insert)
- `release()` (emptying, GC friendly)
- `concat()` / `into()`
- `map()` / `filter()` / `reduce()`
- `compare()` / `equiv()`
- `toJSON()` transform (-> array)

v2.3.0 adds the [self-organizing
list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-organizing_list) type `SOL` (an
extension of `DCons`), which dynamically re-orders items based on certain
accesses and offers these two built-in strategies:

- `defMTF()` - moves currently accessed element to front of list
- `defTranspose()` - swaps currently accessed element with its predecessor

Only the following operations will trigger the self-organizing behavior:

- `nth()`
- `setNth()`
- `setTail()`
- `find()`
- `findWith()`

### Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+%5Bdcons%5D)

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/dcons
```

```html
// ES module
<script type="module" src="https://unpkg.com/@thi.ng/dcons?module" crossorigin></script>

// UMD
<script src="https://unpkg.com/@thi.ng/dcons/lib/index.umd.js" crossorigin></script>
```

Package sizes (gzipped, pre-treeshake): ESM: 2.14 KB / CJS: 2.22 KB / UMD: 2.33 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/compare](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/compare)
- [@thi.ng/equiv](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/equiv)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/random](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/random)
- [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/dcons/)

### Head centric

- `cons()`
- `first()`
- `drop()`
- `setHead()`

### Tail centric

- `into()`
- `push()`
- `peek()`
- `pop()`
- `setTail()`

### Random Access

- `.length`
- `nth()`
- `nthCell()`
- `setNth()`

### Insertion

- `insertBefore()`
- `insertAfter()`
- `insertBeforeNth()`
- `insertAfterNth()`
- `insertSorted()`

### Finding

- `find()`
- `findWith()`

### Structure

- `copy()`
- `concat()`
- `slice()`
- `splice()`
- `swap()`
- `shuffle()`
- `sort()`
- `reverse()`
- `rotateLeft()`
- `rotateRight()`
- `release()`

TODO

## Authors

Karsten Schmidt

## License

&copy; 2017 - 2020 Karsten Schmidt // Apache Software License 2.0
