packages/bench/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/bench](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-bench.svg?7a8d9aad)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/bench.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/bench)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/bench.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
  - [Basic usage](#basic-usage)
  - [Benchmarking with statistics](#benchmarking-with-statistics)
  - [Benchmark suites](#benchmark-suites)
  - [Output formatting](#output-formatting)
  - [Profiling](#profiling)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Benchmarking & profiling utilities w/ various statistics & formatters (CSV, JSON, Markdown etc.).

Though no public API change (only additions), since v2.0.0 this library
internally (via
[`now()`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/bench/functions/now.html)) attempts to
use high-res ES
[`BigInt`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)
timestamps (in Node via
[`process.hrtime.bigint()`](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v12.x/docs/api/process.html#process_process_hrtime_bigint))
or falls back to `performance.now()` or lacking that to `Date.now()`. In all
cases, returns a (possibly rounded) nanosec-scale timestamp, either as `bigint`
or `number`. The
[`timeDiff()`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/bench/functions/timeDiff.html)
function can be used to compute the difference between two such timestamp and
return it as milliseconds.

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bbench%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/csv](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/csv) - Customizable, transducer-based CSV parser/object mapper and transformer
- [@thi.ng/markdown-table](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/markdown-table) - Markdown table formatter/generator with support for column alignments

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/bench
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/bench"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const bench = await import("@thi.ng/bench");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 2.07 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)

## Usage examples

Several projects in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                                | Description                                                                      | Live demo                                                | Source                                                                                |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/geom-knn.jpg" width="240"/>           | Doodle w/ K-nearest neighbor search result visualization                         | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/geom-knn/)           | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/geom-knn)           |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/geom-knn-hash.jpg" width="240"/>      | K-nearest neighbor search in an hash grid                                        | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/geom-knn-hash/)      | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/geom-knn-hash)      |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/geom-voronoi-mst.jpg" width="240"/>   | Poisson-disk shape-aware sampling, Voronoi & Minimum Spanning Tree visualization | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/geom-voronoi-mst/)   | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/geom-voronoi-mst)   |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/markdown-parser.jpg" width="240"/>    | Markdown to Hiccup to HTML parser / transformer                                  | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/markdown/)           | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/markdown)           |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/parse-playground.png" width="240"/>   | Parser grammar livecoding editor/playground & codegen                            | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/parse-playground/)   | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/parse-playground)   |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/pixel-sorting.png" width="240"/>      | Interactive pixel sorting tool using thi.ng/color & thi.ng/pixel                 | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/pixel-sorting/)      | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/pixel-sorting)      |
|                                                                                                                           | Full umbrella repo doc string search w/ paginated results                        | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/rdom-search-docs/)   | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/rdom-search-docs)   |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/shader-ast-workers.jpg" width="240"/> | Fork-join worker-based raymarch renderer (JS/CPU only)                           | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/shader-ast-workers/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/shader-ast-workers) |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/bench/)

### Basic usage

```ts
import { timed, bench, benchmark } from "@thi.ng/bench";

// test functions
const fib = (n) => n > 2 ? fib(n - 1) + fib(n - 2) : n > 0 ? 1 : 0;

const fib2 = (n) => {
    const res = [0, 1];
    for(let i = 2; i <= n; i++) {
        res[i] = res[i - 1] + res[i - 2];
    }
    return res[n];
};

// measure single execution time
timed(() => fib(40));
// 714ms
// 102334155
timed(() => fib2(40));
// 0ms
// 102334155

// measure 1mil iterations (default)
bench(() => fib(10), 1e6);
// 395ms
// 55

bench(() => fib2(10), 1e6);
// 53ms
// 55
```

### Benchmarking with statistics

The `benchmark()` function executes a number of warmup runs, before
executing the main measurement and producing a number of useful
statistics: mean, median, min/max, 1st/3rd quartile, standard deviation
(as percentage)...

See
[api.ts](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/bench/src/api.ts)
for configuration options.

Also see the [formatting](#output-formatting) section below for other output
options. This example uses the default format...

```ts
benchmark(() => fib(40), { title: "fib", iter: 10, warmup: 5 });
// benchmarking: fib
//         warmup... 3707.17ms (5 runs)
//         executing...
//         total: 7333.72ms, runs: 10
//         mean: 733.37ms, median: 733.79ms, range: [728.58..743.43]
//         q1: 730.98ms, q3: 735.03ms
//         sd: 0.54%

// also returns results:
// {
//   title: "fib",
//   iter: 10,
//   total: 7333.72402,
//   mean: 733.372402,
//   median: 733.794194,
//   min: 728.5808,
//   max: 743.432538,
//   q1: 730.980115,
//   q3: 735.025314,
//   sd: 0.542200865574415
// }
```

### Benchmark suites

Multiple benchmarks can be run sequentially as suite (also returns an array of
all results):

```ts
b.suite(
    [
        { title: "fib2(10)", fn: () => fib2(10) },
        { title: "fib2(20)", fn: () => fib2(20) },
        { title: "fib2(30)", fn: () => fib2(30) },
        { title: "fib2(40)", fn: () => fib2(40) },
    ],
    { iter: 10, size: 100000, warmup: 5, format: b.FORMAT_MD }
)

// |                   Title|    Iter|    Size|       Total|    Mean|  Median|     Min|     Max|      Q1|      Q3|     SD%|
// |------------------------|-------:|-------:|-----------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|
// |                fib2(10)|      10|  100000|       54.34|    5.43|    5.15|    4.40|    8.14|    4.84|    6.67|   20.32|
// |                fib2(20)|      10|  100000|      121.24|   12.12|   12.13|   11.73|   12.91|   11.93|   12.35|    2.61|
// |                fib2(30)|      10|  100000|      152.98|   15.30|   14.51|   13.93|   20.77|   14.35|   16.35|   12.65|
// |                fib2(40)|      10|  100000|      164.79|   16.48|   15.60|   15.01|   19.27|   15.42|   18.80|    9.34|
```

Same table as actual Markdown:

|                   Title|    Iter|    Size|       Total|    Mean|  Median|     Min|     Max|      Q1|      Q3|     SD%|
|------------------------|-------:|-------:|-----------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|
|                fib2(10)|      10|  100000|       54.34|    5.43|    5.15|    4.40|    8.14|    4.84|    6.67|   20.32|
|                fib2(20)|      10|  100000|      121.24|   12.12|   12.13|   11.73|   12.91|   11.93|   12.35|    2.61|
|                fib2(30)|      10|  100000|      152.98|   15.30|   14.51|   13.93|   20.77|   14.35|   16.35|   12.65|
|                fib2(40)|      10|  100000|      164.79|   16.48|   15.60|   15.01|   19.27|   15.42|   18.80|    9.34|

### Output formatting

The following output formatters are available. Custom formatters can be easily
defined (see source for examples). Formatters are configured via the `format`
option given to `benchmark()` or `suite()`.

- `FORMAT_DEFAULT` - default plain text formatting
- `FORMAT_CSV` - Comma-separated values (w/ column header)
- `FORMAT_MD` - Markdown table format

### Profiling

Since v3.3.0 the package also provides a basic profiler to take named
measurements and compute derived statistics. The profiler can by dynamically
enabled/disabled, supports recursion and estimates/subtracts its internal
overhead. Results can be obtained as JSON objects or CSV.

```ts
// initialize with 1million warmup iterations to compute internal overhead (takes around ~100ms)
const profiler = new Profiler({ warmup: 1e6 });

// recursive function
const countdown = (n, acc = []) => {
    profiler.start("countdown");
    if (n > 0) countdown(n - 1, (acc.push(n),acc));
    profiler.end("countdown");
    return acc;
}

countdown(10);
// [ 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 ]

countdown(5);
// [ 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 ]

// obtain results
profiler.deref()
// {
//   countdown: {
//     id: 'countdown',
//     total: 0.028939979283999998,
//     timePerCall: 0.0017023517225882353,
//     totalPercent: 95.99309794988116,
//     calls: 17,
//     callsPercent: 100,
//     maxDepth: 11
//   }
// }

// results formatted as CSV
console.log(profiler.asCSV())
// "id","total (ms)","time/call (ms)","total (%)","calls","calls (%)","max depth"
// "countdown",0.0289,0.0017,17,95.99,100.00,11
```

## Authors

- Karsten Schmidt

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-bench,
  title = "@thi.ng/bench",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/bench",
  year = 2018
}
```

## License

&copy; 2018 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

docs: update readmes (CFP survey header)

packages/bench/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->
> [!IMPORTANT]
> ‼️ Announcing the thi.ng user survey 2024 📋
>
> [Please participate in the survey here!](https://forms.gle/XacbSDEmQMPZg8197)\
> (open until end of February)
>
> **To achieve a better sample size, I'd highly appreciate if you could
> circulate the link to this survey in your own networks.**
>
> [Discussion](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/discussions/447)

# ![@thi.ng/bench](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-bench.svg?7a8d9aad)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/bench.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/bench)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/bench.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
  - [Basic usage](#basic-usage)
  - [Benchmarking with statistics](#benchmarking-with-statistics)
  - [Benchmark suites](#benchmark-suites)
  - [Output formatting](#output-formatting)
  - [Profiling](#profiling)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Benchmarking & profiling utilities w/ various statistics & formatters (CSV, JSON, Markdown etc.).

Though no public API change (only additions), since v2.0.0 this library
internally (via
[`now()`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/bench/functions/now.html)) attempts to
use high-res ES
[`BigInt`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)
timestamps (in Node via
[`process.hrtime.bigint()`](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v12.x/docs/api/process.html#process_process_hrtime_bigint))
or falls back to `performance.now()` or lacking that to `Date.now()`. In all
cases, returns a (possibly rounded) nanosec-scale timestamp, either as `bigint`
or `number`. The
[`timeDiff()`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/bench/functions/timeDiff.html)
function can be used to compute the difference between two such timestamp and
return it as milliseconds.

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bbench%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/csv](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/csv) - Customizable, transducer-based CSV parser/object mapper and transformer
- [@thi.ng/markdown-table](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/markdown-table) - Markdown table formatter/generator with support for column alignments

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/bench
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/bench"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const bench = await import("@thi.ng/bench");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 2.07 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)

## Usage examples

Several projects in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                                | Description                                                                      | Live demo                                                | Source                                                                                |
|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/geom-knn.jpg" width="240"/>           | Doodle w/ K-nearest neighbor search result visualization                         | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/geom-knn/)           | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/geom-knn)           |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/geom-knn-hash.jpg" width="240"/>      | K-nearest neighbor search in an hash grid                                        | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/geom-knn-hash/)      | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/geom-knn-hash)      |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/geom-voronoi-mst.jpg" width="240"/>   | Poisson-disk shape-aware sampling, Voronoi & Minimum Spanning Tree visualization | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/geom-voronoi-mst/)   | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/geom-voronoi-mst)   |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/markdown-parser.jpg" width="240"/>    | Markdown to Hiccup to HTML parser / transformer                                  | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/markdown/)           | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/markdown)           |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/parse-playground.png" width="240"/>   | Parser grammar livecoding editor/playground & codegen                            | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/parse-playground/)   | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/parse-playground)   |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/pixel-sorting.png" width="240"/>      | Interactive pixel sorting tool using thi.ng/color & thi.ng/pixel                 | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/pixel-sorting/)      | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/pixel-sorting)      |
|                                                                                                                           | Full umbrella repo doc string search w/ paginated results                        | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/rdom-search-docs/)   | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/rdom-search-docs)   |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/shader-ast-workers.jpg" width="240"/> | Fork-join worker-based raymarch renderer (JS/CPU only)                           | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/shader-ast-workers/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/shader-ast-workers) |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/bench/)

### Basic usage

```ts
import { timed, bench, benchmark } from "@thi.ng/bench";

// test functions
const fib = (n) => n > 2 ? fib(n - 1) + fib(n - 2) : n > 0 ? 1 : 0;

const fib2 = (n) => {
    const res = [0, 1];
    for(let i = 2; i <= n; i++) {
        res[i] = res[i - 1] + res[i - 2];
    }
    return res[n];
};

// measure single execution time
timed(() => fib(40));
// 714ms
// 102334155
timed(() => fib2(40));
// 0ms
// 102334155

// measure 1mil iterations (default)
bench(() => fib(10), 1e6);
// 395ms
// 55

bench(() => fib2(10), 1e6);
// 53ms
// 55
```

### Benchmarking with statistics

The `benchmark()` function executes a number of warmup runs, before
executing the main measurement and producing a number of useful
statistics: mean, median, min/max, 1st/3rd quartile, standard deviation
(as percentage)...

See
[api.ts](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/bench/src/api.ts)
for configuration options.

Also see the [formatting](#output-formatting) section below for other output
options. This example uses the default format...

```ts
benchmark(() => fib(40), { title: "fib", iter: 10, warmup: 5 });
// benchmarking: fib
//         warmup... 3707.17ms (5 runs)
//         executing...
//         total: 7333.72ms, runs: 10
//         mean: 733.37ms, median: 733.79ms, range: [728.58..743.43]
//         q1: 730.98ms, q3: 735.03ms
//         sd: 0.54%

// also returns results:
// {
//   title: "fib",
//   iter: 10,
//   total: 7333.72402,
//   mean: 733.372402,
//   median: 733.794194,
//   min: 728.5808,
//   max: 743.432538,
//   q1: 730.980115,
//   q3: 735.025314,
//   sd: 0.542200865574415
// }
```

### Benchmark suites

Multiple benchmarks can be run sequentially as suite (also returns an array of
all results):

```ts
b.suite(
    [
        { title: "fib2(10)", fn: () => fib2(10) },
        { title: "fib2(20)", fn: () => fib2(20) },
        { title: "fib2(30)", fn: () => fib2(30) },
        { title: "fib2(40)", fn: () => fib2(40) },
    ],
    { iter: 10, size: 100000, warmup: 5, format: b.FORMAT_MD }
)

// |                   Title|    Iter|    Size|       Total|    Mean|  Median|     Min|     Max|      Q1|      Q3|     SD%|
// |------------------------|-------:|-------:|-----------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|
// |                fib2(10)|      10|  100000|       54.34|    5.43|    5.15|    4.40|    8.14|    4.84|    6.67|   20.32|
// |                fib2(20)|      10|  100000|      121.24|   12.12|   12.13|   11.73|   12.91|   11.93|   12.35|    2.61|
// |                fib2(30)|      10|  100000|      152.98|   15.30|   14.51|   13.93|   20.77|   14.35|   16.35|   12.65|
// |                fib2(40)|      10|  100000|      164.79|   16.48|   15.60|   15.01|   19.27|   15.42|   18.80|    9.34|
```

Same table as actual Markdown:

|                   Title|    Iter|    Size|       Total|    Mean|  Median|     Min|     Max|      Q1|      Q3|     SD%|
|------------------------|-------:|-------:|-----------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|
|                fib2(10)|      10|  100000|       54.34|    5.43|    5.15|    4.40|    8.14|    4.84|    6.67|   20.32|
|                fib2(20)|      10|  100000|      121.24|   12.12|   12.13|   11.73|   12.91|   11.93|   12.35|    2.61|
|                fib2(30)|      10|  100000|      152.98|   15.30|   14.51|   13.93|   20.77|   14.35|   16.35|   12.65|
|                fib2(40)|      10|  100000|      164.79|   16.48|   15.60|   15.01|   19.27|   15.42|   18.80|    9.34|

### Output formatting

The following output formatters are available. Custom formatters can be easily
defined (see source for examples). Formatters are configured via the `format`
option given to `benchmark()` or `suite()`.

- `FORMAT_DEFAULT` - default plain text formatting
- `FORMAT_CSV` - Comma-separated values (w/ column header)
- `FORMAT_MD` - Markdown table format

### Profiling

Since v3.3.0 the package also provides a basic profiler to take named
measurements and compute derived statistics. The profiler can by dynamically
enabled/disabled, supports recursion and estimates/subtracts its internal
overhead. Results can be obtained as JSON objects or CSV.

```ts
// initialize with 1million warmup iterations to compute internal overhead (takes around ~100ms)
const profiler = new Profiler({ warmup: 1e6 });

// recursive function
const countdown = (n, acc = []) => {
    profiler.start("countdown");
    if (n > 0) countdown(n - 1, (acc.push(n),acc));
    profiler.end("countdown");
    return acc;
}

countdown(10);
// [ 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 ]

countdown(5);
// [ 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 ]

// obtain results
profiler.deref()
// {
//   countdown: {
//     id: 'countdown',
//     total: 0.028939979283999998,
//     timePerCall: 0.0017023517225882353,
//     totalPercent: 95.99309794988116,
//     calls: 17,
//     callsPercent: 100,
//     maxDepth: 11
//   }
// }

// results formatted as CSV
console.log(profiler.asCSV())
// "id","total (ms)","time/call (ms)","total (%)","calls","calls (%)","max depth"
// "countdown",0.0289,0.0017,17,95.99,100.00,11
```

## Authors

- Karsten Schmidt

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-bench,
  title = "@thi.ng/bench",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/bench",
  year = 2018
}
```

## License

&copy; 2018 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0
