packages/defmulti/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/defmulti](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-defmulti.svg?a884adc9)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/defmulti.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/defmulti)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/defmulti.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
  - [defmulti()](#defmulti)
    - [Dispatch value hierarchies](#dispatch-value-hierarchies)
  - [implementations()](#implementations)
  - [defmultiN()](#defmultin)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
    - [Dynamic dispatch: Simple S-expression interpreter](#dynamic-dispatch-simple-s-expression-interpreter)
    - [True multiple arg dispatch](#true-multiple-arg-dispatch)
    - [Dispatch value graph visualization](#dispatch-value-graph-visualization)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Dynamically extensible [multiple
dispatch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiple_dispatch) via user
supplied dispatch function, with minimal overhead and support for
dispatch value inheritance hierarchies (more flexible and independent of
any actual JS type relationships).

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bdefmulti%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/defmulti
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/defmulti"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const defmulti = await import("@thi.ng/defmulti");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 818 bytes

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/logger](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/logger)

## Usage examples

Several projects in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                                 | Description                                                                                             | Live demo                                                 | Source                                                                                 |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/lispy-repl.png" width="240"/>          | Browser REPL for a Lispy S-expression based mini language                                               | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/lispy-repl/)          | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/lispy-repl)          |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/mastodon-feed.jpg" width="240"/>       | Mastodon API feed reader with support for different media types, fullscreen media modal, HTML rewriting | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/mastodon-feed/)       | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/mastodon-feed)       |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/procedural-text.jpg" width="240"/>     | Procedural stochastic text generation via custom DSL, parse grammar & AST transformation                | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/procedural-text/)     | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/procedural-text)     |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/rstream-spreadsheet.png" width="240"/> | rstream based spreadsheet w/ S-expression formula DSL                                                   | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/rstream-spreadsheet/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/rstream-spreadsheet) |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/xml-converter.png" width="240"/>       | XML/HTML/SVG to hiccup/JS conversion                                                                    | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/xml-converter/)       | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/xml-converter)       |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/defmulti/)

### defmulti()

`defmulti` returns a new multi-dispatch function using the provided
dispatcher function. The dispatcher acts as a mapping function, can take
any number of arguments and must produce a dispatch value (string,
number or symbol) used to lookup an implementation. If found, the impl
is called with the same args. If no matching implementation is
available, attempts to dispatch to `DEFAULT` impl. If none is
registered, an error is thrown.

`defmulti` provides generics for type checking up to 8 args (plus the
return type) and the generics will also apply to all implementations. If
more than 8 args are required, `defmulti` will fall back to an untyped
varargs solution.

The function returned by `defmulti` can be called like any other
function, but also exposes the following operations:

- `.add(id, fn)` - adds/overrides implementation for given dispatch
  value
- `.addAll(impls)` - add/override multiple implementations (given as object,
  with keys referring to dispatch values)
- `.remove(id)` - removes implementation for dispatch value
- `.callable(...args)` - takes same args as if calling the
  multi-function, but only checks if an implementation exists for the
  given args. Returns boolean.
- `.isa(child, parent)` - establish dispatch value relationship hierarchy
- `.impls()` - returns set of all dispatch values which have an implementation
- `.rels()` - return all dispatch value relationships
- `.parents(id)` - direct parents of dispatch value `id`
- `.ancestors(id)` - transitive parents of dispatch value `id`
- `.dependencies()` - returns iterator of all dispatch value relationship pairs

#### Dispatch value hierarchies

To avoid code duplication, dispatch values can be associated in
child-parent relationships and implementations only defined for some
ancestors. Iff no implementation exists for a concrete dispatch value,
`defmulti` first attempts to find an implementation for any ancestor
dispatch value before using the `DEFAULT` implementation.

These relationships can be defined via an additional (optional) object
arg to `defmulti` and/or dynamically extended via the `.isa(child,
parent)` call to the multi-function. Relationships can also be queried
via `.parents(id)` and `.ancestors(id)`.

Note: If multiple direct parents are defined for a dispatch value, then
it's currently undefined which implementation will be picked. If this
causes issues to people, parents could be implemented as sorted list
(each parent with weight) instead of Sets, but this will have perf
impact... please open an issue if you run into problems!

```ts
const foo = defmulti((x) => x);
foo.isa(23, "odd");
foo.isa(42, "even");
foo.isa("odd", "number");
foo.isa("even", "number");

foo.parents(23); // Set { "odd" }
foo.ancestors(23); // Set { "odd", "number" }

foo.parents(1); // undefined
foo.ancestors(1); // Set { }

// add some implementations
foo.add("odd", (x) => `${x} is odd`);
foo.add("number", (x) => `${x} is a number`);

// dispatch values w/ implementations
foo.impls();
// Set { "odd", "even", "number", "23", "42" }

foo(23); // "23 is odd"
foo(42); // "42 is a number"
foo(1);  // error (missing impl & no default)

foo.callable(1) // false
```

Same example, but with relationships provided as argument to `defmulti`:

```ts
const foo = defmulti((x) => x, {
    23: "odd",
    42: "even",
    "odd": "number",
    "even": "number",
});

foo.rels();
// { "23": Set { "odd" },
//   "42": Set { "even" },
//   odd: Set { "number" },
//   even: Set { "number" } }
```

### implementations()

Syntax-sugar intended for sets of multi-methods sharing same dispatch
values / logic. Takes a dispatch value, an object of "is-a"
relationships and a number of multi-methods, each with an implementation
for the given dispatch value.

The relations object has dispatch values (parents) as keys and arrays of
multi-methods as their values. For each multi-method associates the
given `type` with the related parent dispatch value to delegate to its
implementation (see `.isa()` above).

The remaining implementations are associated with their related
multi-method and the given `type` dispatch value.

```ts
foo = defmulti((x) => x.id);
bar = defmulti((x) => x.id);
bax = defmulti((x) => x.id);
baz = defmulti((x) => x.id);

// define impls for dispatch value `a`
implementations(
  "a",

  // delegate bax & baz impls to dispatch val `b`
  {
     b: [bax, baz]
  },

  // concrete multi-fn impls
  foo,
  (x) => `foo: ${x.val}`,
  bar,
  (x) => `bar: ${x.val.toUpperCase()}`
);

// some parent impls for bax & baz
bax.add("b", (x) => `bax: ${x.id}`);
baz.add("c", (x) => `baz: ${x.id}`);

// delegate to use "c" impl for "b"
baz.isa("b", "c");

foo({ id: "a", val: "alice" }); // "foo: alice"
bar({ id: "a", val: "alice" }); // "bar: ALICE"
bax({ id: "a", val: "alice" }); // "bax: a"
baz({ id: "a", val: "alice" }); // "baz: a"

baz.impls(); // Set { "c", "a", "b" }
```

Also see the WIP package
[@thi.ng/geom](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/geom)
for a concreate realworld usage example.

### defmultiN()

Returns a multi-dispatch function which delegates to one of the provided
implementations, based on the arity (number of args) when the function
is called. Internally uses `defmulti`, so new arities can be dynamically
added (or removed) at a later time. If no `fallback` is provided,
`defmultiN` also registers a `DEFAULT` implementation which simply
throws an `IllegalArityError` when invoked.

**Note:** Unlike `defmulti` no argument type checking is supported,
however you can specify the return type for the generated function.

```ts
const foo = defmultiN<string>({
  0: () => "zero",
  1: (x) => `one: ${x}`,
  3: (x, y, z) => `three: ${x}, ${y}, ${z}`
});

foo();
// zero
foo(23);
// one: 23
foo(1, 2, 3);
// three: 1, 2, 3
foo(1, 2);
// Error: illegal arity: 2
```

## Usage examples

```ts
import { defmulti, DEFAULT } from "@thi.ng/defmulti";

const visit = defmulti<any, void>((x) => Object.prototype.toString.call(x));

// register implementations for different dispatch types
// each dispatch value can only be registered once
visit.add("[object Array]", (x) => x.forEach(visit));
visit.add("[object Object]", (x) => { for(let k in x) visit([k, x[k]]); });
// ignore null values
visit.add("[object Null]", (x) => { });
// DEFAULT matches all other dispatch values
visit.add(DEFAULT, (x) => console.log("visit", x.toString()));

// call like normal fn
visit([{a: 1, b: ["foo", "bar", null, 42]}])
// a
// 1
// b
// foo
// bar
// 42
```

See
[/test/index.ts](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/defmulti/test/index.ts)
for a variation of this example.

#### Dynamic dispatch: Simple S-expression interpreter

```ts
const exec = defmulti((x) => Array.isArray(x) ? x[0] : typeof x);
exec.add("+", ([_, ...args]) => args.reduce((acc, n) => acc + exec(n), 0));
exec.add("*", ([_, ...args]) => args.reduce((acc, n) => acc * exec(n), 1));
exec.add("number", (x) => x);
exec.add(DEFAULT, (x) => { throw new Error(`invalid expr: ${x}`); });

// 10 * (1 + 2 + 3) + 6
exec(["+", ["*", 10, ["+", 1, 2, 3]], 6]);
// 66
```

#### True multiple arg dispatch

```ts
// interest rate calculator based on account type & balance thresholds
const apr = defmulti(
    ({type, balance}) =>
        `${type}-${balance < 1e4 ? "low" : balance < 5e4 ? "med" : "high"}`
);

apr.add("current-low",  ({ balance }) => balance * 0.005);
apr.add("current-med",  ({ balance }) => balance * 0.01);
apr.add("current-high", ({ balance }) => balance * 0.01);
apr.add("savings-low",  ({ balance }) => balance * 0.01);
apr.add("savings-med",  ({ balance }) => balance * 0.025);
apr.add("savings-high", ({ balance }) => balance * 0.035);
apr.add(DEFAULT, (x) => { throw new Error(`invalid account type: ${x.type}`)});

apr({type: "current", balance: 5000});
// 25
apr({type: "current", balance: 10000});
// 100
apr({type: "savings", balance: 10000});
// 250
apr({type: "isa", balance: 10000});
// Error: invalid account type: isa
```

#### Dispatch value graph visualization

To facilitate better introspection of dynamically constructed/added `defmulti()`
implementations (with possibly deep hierarchies of dispatch values), we can
utilize the `.dependencies()` method to extract all dispatch value relationships
and use these to build [dependency
graph](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/dgraph), which
then can also be visualized.

```ts
import { defDGraph } from "@thi.ng/dgraph";
import { toDot } from "@thi.ng/dgraph-dot";

const fn = defmulti((x) => x);

// dummy impls
fn.add("a", () => {});
fn.add("d", () => {});

// dispatch value relationships
fn.isa("b", "a");
fn.isa("c", "b");
fn.isa("e", "d");

// build dependency graph and export as Graphviz DOT format
console.log(toDot(defDGraph(fn.dependencies()), { id: (id) => id }));
// digraph g {
// "b"[label="b"];
// "c"[label="c"];
// "e"[label="e"];
// "a"[label="a"];
// "d"[label="d"];
// "b" -> "a";
// "c" -> "b";
// "e" -> "d";
// }
```

![Graphviz output](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/defmulti/readme.dot.svg)

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-defmulti,
  title = "@thi.ng/defmulti",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/defmulti",
  year = 2018
}
```

## License

&copy; 2018 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

docs: update readmes (CFP survey header)

packages/defmulti/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->
> [!IMPORTANT]
> ‼️ Announcing the thi.ng user survey 2024 📋
>
> [Please participate in the survey here!](https://forms.gle/XacbSDEmQMPZg8197)\
> (open until end of February)
>
> **To achieve a better sample size, I'd highly appreciate if you could
> circulate the link to this survey in your own networks.**
>
> [Discussion](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/discussions/447)

# ![@thi.ng/defmulti](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-defmulti.svg?a884adc9)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/defmulti.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/defmulti)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/defmulti.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
  - [defmulti()](#defmulti)
    - [Dispatch value hierarchies](#dispatch-value-hierarchies)
  - [implementations()](#implementations)
  - [defmultiN()](#defmultin)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
    - [Dynamic dispatch: Simple S-expression interpreter](#dynamic-dispatch-simple-s-expression-interpreter)
    - [True multiple arg dispatch](#true-multiple-arg-dispatch)
    - [Dispatch value graph visualization](#dispatch-value-graph-visualization)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Dynamically extensible [multiple
dispatch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiple_dispatch) via user
supplied dispatch function, with minimal overhead and support for
dispatch value inheritance hierarchies (more flexible and independent of
any actual JS type relationships).

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bdefmulti%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/defmulti
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/defmulti"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const defmulti = await import("@thi.ng/defmulti");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 818 bytes

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/logger](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/logger)

## Usage examples

Several projects in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                                 | Description                                                                                             | Live demo                                                 | Source                                                                                 |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/lispy-repl.png" width="240"/>          | Browser REPL for a Lispy S-expression based mini language                                               | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/lispy-repl/)          | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/lispy-repl)          |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/mastodon-feed.jpg" width="240"/>       | Mastodon API feed reader with support for different media types, fullscreen media modal, HTML rewriting | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/mastodon-feed/)       | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/mastodon-feed)       |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/procedural-text.jpg" width="240"/>     | Procedural stochastic text generation via custom DSL, parse grammar & AST transformation                | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/procedural-text/)     | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/procedural-text)     |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/rstream-spreadsheet.png" width="240"/> | rstream based spreadsheet w/ S-expression formula DSL                                                   | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/rstream-spreadsheet/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/rstream-spreadsheet) |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/xml-converter.png" width="240"/>       | XML/HTML/SVG to hiccup/JS conversion                                                                    | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/xml-converter/)       | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/xml-converter)       |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/defmulti/)

### defmulti()

`defmulti` returns a new multi-dispatch function using the provided
dispatcher function. The dispatcher acts as a mapping function, can take
any number of arguments and must produce a dispatch value (string,
number or symbol) used to lookup an implementation. If found, the impl
is called with the same args. If no matching implementation is
available, attempts to dispatch to `DEFAULT` impl. If none is
registered, an error is thrown.

`defmulti` provides generics for type checking up to 8 args (plus the
return type) and the generics will also apply to all implementations. If
more than 8 args are required, `defmulti` will fall back to an untyped
varargs solution.

The function returned by `defmulti` can be called like any other
function, but also exposes the following operations:

- `.add(id, fn)` - adds/overrides implementation for given dispatch
  value
- `.addAll(impls)` - add/override multiple implementations (given as object,
  with keys referring to dispatch values)
- `.remove(id)` - removes implementation for dispatch value
- `.callable(...args)` - takes same args as if calling the
  multi-function, but only checks if an implementation exists for the
  given args. Returns boolean.
- `.isa(child, parent)` - establish dispatch value relationship hierarchy
- `.impls()` - returns set of all dispatch values which have an implementation
- `.rels()` - return all dispatch value relationships
- `.parents(id)` - direct parents of dispatch value `id`
- `.ancestors(id)` - transitive parents of dispatch value `id`
- `.dependencies()` - returns iterator of all dispatch value relationship pairs

#### Dispatch value hierarchies

To avoid code duplication, dispatch values can be associated in
child-parent relationships and implementations only defined for some
ancestors. Iff no implementation exists for a concrete dispatch value,
`defmulti` first attempts to find an implementation for any ancestor
dispatch value before using the `DEFAULT` implementation.

These relationships can be defined via an additional (optional) object
arg to `defmulti` and/or dynamically extended via the `.isa(child,
parent)` call to the multi-function. Relationships can also be queried
via `.parents(id)` and `.ancestors(id)`.

Note: If multiple direct parents are defined for a dispatch value, then
it's currently undefined which implementation will be picked. If this
causes issues to people, parents could be implemented as sorted list
(each parent with weight) instead of Sets, but this will have perf
impact... please open an issue if you run into problems!

```ts
const foo = defmulti((x) => x);
foo.isa(23, "odd");
foo.isa(42, "even");
foo.isa("odd", "number");
foo.isa("even", "number");

foo.parents(23); // Set { "odd" }
foo.ancestors(23); // Set { "odd", "number" }

foo.parents(1); // undefined
foo.ancestors(1); // Set { }

// add some implementations
foo.add("odd", (x) => `${x} is odd`);
foo.add("number", (x) => `${x} is a number`);

// dispatch values w/ implementations
foo.impls();
// Set { "odd", "even", "number", "23", "42" }

foo(23); // "23 is odd"
foo(42); // "42 is a number"
foo(1);  // error (missing impl & no default)

foo.callable(1) // false
```

Same example, but with relationships provided as argument to `defmulti`:

```ts
const foo = defmulti((x) => x, {
    23: "odd",
    42: "even",
    "odd": "number",
    "even": "number",
});

foo.rels();
// { "23": Set { "odd" },
//   "42": Set { "even" },
//   odd: Set { "number" },
//   even: Set { "number" } }
```

### implementations()

Syntax-sugar intended for sets of multi-methods sharing same dispatch
values / logic. Takes a dispatch value, an object of "is-a"
relationships and a number of multi-methods, each with an implementation
for the given dispatch value.

The relations object has dispatch values (parents) as keys and arrays of
multi-methods as their values. For each multi-method associates the
given `type` with the related parent dispatch value to delegate to its
implementation (see `.isa()` above).

The remaining implementations are associated with their related
multi-method and the given `type` dispatch value.

```ts
foo = defmulti((x) => x.id);
bar = defmulti((x) => x.id);
bax = defmulti((x) => x.id);
baz = defmulti((x) => x.id);

// define impls for dispatch value `a`
implementations(
  "a",

  // delegate bax & baz impls to dispatch val `b`
  {
     b: [bax, baz]
  },

  // concrete multi-fn impls
  foo,
  (x) => `foo: ${x.val}`,
  bar,
  (x) => `bar: ${x.val.toUpperCase()}`
);

// some parent impls for bax & baz
bax.add("b", (x) => `bax: ${x.id}`);
baz.add("c", (x) => `baz: ${x.id}`);

// delegate to use "c" impl for "b"
baz.isa("b", "c");

foo({ id: "a", val: "alice" }); // "foo: alice"
bar({ id: "a", val: "alice" }); // "bar: ALICE"
bax({ id: "a", val: "alice" }); // "bax: a"
baz({ id: "a", val: "alice" }); // "baz: a"

baz.impls(); // Set { "c", "a", "b" }
```

Also see the WIP package
[@thi.ng/geom](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/geom)
for a concreate realworld usage example.

### defmultiN()

Returns a multi-dispatch function which delegates to one of the provided
implementations, based on the arity (number of args) when the function
is called. Internally uses `defmulti`, so new arities can be dynamically
added (or removed) at a later time. If no `fallback` is provided,
`defmultiN` also registers a `DEFAULT` implementation which simply
throws an `IllegalArityError` when invoked.

**Note:** Unlike `defmulti` no argument type checking is supported,
however you can specify the return type for the generated function.

```ts
const foo = defmultiN<string>({
  0: () => "zero",
  1: (x) => `one: ${x}`,
  3: (x, y, z) => `three: ${x}, ${y}, ${z}`
});

foo();
// zero
foo(23);
// one: 23
foo(1, 2, 3);
// three: 1, 2, 3
foo(1, 2);
// Error: illegal arity: 2
```

## Usage examples

```ts
import { defmulti, DEFAULT } from "@thi.ng/defmulti";

const visit = defmulti<any, void>((x) => Object.prototype.toString.call(x));

// register implementations for different dispatch types
// each dispatch value can only be registered once
visit.add("[object Array]", (x) => x.forEach(visit));
visit.add("[object Object]", (x) => { for(let k in x) visit([k, x[k]]); });
// ignore null values
visit.add("[object Null]", (x) => { });
// DEFAULT matches all other dispatch values
visit.add(DEFAULT, (x) => console.log("visit", x.toString()));

// call like normal fn
visit([{a: 1, b: ["foo", "bar", null, 42]}])
// a
// 1
// b
// foo
// bar
// 42
```

See
[/test/index.ts](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/defmulti/test/index.ts)
for a variation of this example.

#### Dynamic dispatch: Simple S-expression interpreter

```ts
const exec = defmulti((x) => Array.isArray(x) ? x[0] : typeof x);
exec.add("+", ([_, ...args]) => args.reduce((acc, n) => acc + exec(n), 0));
exec.add("*", ([_, ...args]) => args.reduce((acc, n) => acc * exec(n), 1));
exec.add("number", (x) => x);
exec.add(DEFAULT, (x) => { throw new Error(`invalid expr: ${x}`); });

// 10 * (1 + 2 + 3) + 6
exec(["+", ["*", 10, ["+", 1, 2, 3]], 6]);
// 66
```

#### True multiple arg dispatch

```ts
// interest rate calculator based on account type & balance thresholds
const apr = defmulti(
    ({type, balance}) =>
        `${type}-${balance < 1e4 ? "low" : balance < 5e4 ? "med" : "high"}`
);

apr.add("current-low",  ({ balance }) => balance * 0.005);
apr.add("current-med",  ({ balance }) => balance * 0.01);
apr.add("current-high", ({ balance }) => balance * 0.01);
apr.add("savings-low",  ({ balance }) => balance * 0.01);
apr.add("savings-med",  ({ balance }) => balance * 0.025);
apr.add("savings-high", ({ balance }) => balance * 0.035);
apr.add(DEFAULT, (x) => { throw new Error(`invalid account type: ${x.type}`)});

apr({type: "current", balance: 5000});
// 25
apr({type: "current", balance: 10000});
// 100
apr({type: "savings", balance: 10000});
// 250
apr({type: "isa", balance: 10000});
// Error: invalid account type: isa
```

#### Dispatch value graph visualization

To facilitate better introspection of dynamically constructed/added `defmulti()`
implementations (with possibly deep hierarchies of dispatch values), we can
utilize the `.dependencies()` method to extract all dispatch value relationships
and use these to build [dependency
graph](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/dgraph), which
then can also be visualized.

```ts
import { defDGraph } from "@thi.ng/dgraph";
import { toDot } from "@thi.ng/dgraph-dot";

const fn = defmulti((x) => x);

// dummy impls
fn.add("a", () => {});
fn.add("d", () => {});

// dispatch value relationships
fn.isa("b", "a");
fn.isa("c", "b");
fn.isa("e", "d");

// build dependency graph and export as Graphviz DOT format
console.log(toDot(defDGraph(fn.dependencies()), { id: (id) => id }));
// digraph g {
// "b"[label="b"];
// "c"[label="c"];
// "e"[label="e"];
// "a"[label="a"];
// "d"[label="d"];
// "b" -> "a";
// "c" -> "b";
// "e" -> "d";
// }
```

![Graphviz output](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/defmulti/readme.dot.svg)

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-defmulti,
  title = "@thi.ng/defmulti",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/defmulti",
  year = 2018
}
```

## License

&copy; 2018 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0
