packages/fibers/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/fibers](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-fibers.svg?d08288cb)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/fibers.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/fibers)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/fibers.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
  - [Basic usage](#basic-usage)
  - [Fiber operators](#fiber-operators)
  - [Composition via transducers](#composition-via-transducers)
  - [CSP primitives (Communicating Sequential Processes)](#csp-primitives-communicating-sequential-processes)
    - [Buffering behaviors](#buffering-behaviors)
    - [Channels](#channels)
    - [CSP ping/pong example](#csp-pingpong-example)
- [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Process hierarchies & operators for cooperative multitasking.

This package provides a
[`Fiber`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/classes/Fiber.html) primitive
acting as wrapper around ES6 generators (co-routines) and supplements them with
nested child processes, cancellation, error & event handling and (optional)
logging features. Additionally, there're a number of fiber-related utilities and
higher order operators to construct and compose fibers.

### Basic usage

```ts tangle:export/readme-1.ts
import { fiber, wait } from "@thi.ng/fibers";
import { ConsoleLogger } from "@thi.ng/logger";

// wrap an endless generator as fiber
const app = fiber(
    function* () {
        while(true) {
            console.log("hello");
            // wait 0.25s
            yield* wait(250);
            console.log("fiber");
            // wait 1s
            yield* wait(1000);
        }
    }
);

// start processing it with default handlers
// see: https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/classes/Fiber.html#run
app.run();

// create a child process which runs semi-independently
// (only executes if parent is still active)
// child fibers are auto-removed from parent when they terminate
const child = app.fork(
    // the `ctx` arg is the fiber wrapping this generator
    function* (ctx) {
        for(let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
            ctx.logger?.debug("count", i);
            yield* wait(100);
        }
        // return value will be stored in fiber for future reference
        return 42;
    },
    // fiber options
    {
        // custom fiber ID (else autogenerated)
        id: "child-demo",
        // custom logger (default: none)
        logger: new ConsoleLogger("child")
    }
);

// hello
// [DEBUG] child: init child-demo
// [DEBUG] child: count 0
// [DEBUG] child: count 1
// [DEBUG] child: count 2
// fiber
// [DEBUG] child: done child-demo 42
// [DEBUG] child: deinit child-demo
// hello
// fiber
// hello
// ...

// once a fiber has completed, its value can be obtained
// e.g. here we create another fiber, which first waits for `child` to complete
app.fork(function* () {
    // wait for other fiber
    const result = yield* child;
    console.log("result", result);
    // alt way to obtain value
    console.log("deref", child.deref());
});
// result 42
// deref 42
```

### Fiber operators

The following operators act as basic composition helpers to construct more elaborate fiber setups:

- [`all`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/all.html): wait for all given fibers to complete
- [`asPromise`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/asPromise.html): wrap fiber as promise for use in `async` contexts
- [`first`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/first.html): wait for one of the given fibers to complete
- [`fork`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/classes/Fiber.html#fork): create & attach a new child process
- [`forkAll`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/classes/Fiber.html#forkAll): create & attach multiple child processes
- [`join`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/classes/Fiber.html#join): wait for all child processes to complete
- [`sequence`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/sequence.html): execute fibers in sequence
- [`shuffle`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/shuffle-1.html): execute fibers in constantly randomized order
- [`timeSlice`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/timeSlice.html): execute fiber in batches of N milliseconds
- [`timeSliceIterable`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/timeSliceIterable.html): consume iterable in batches of N milliseconds
- [`until`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/until.html): wait until predicate is truthy
- [`untilEvent`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/untilEvent.html): wait until event occurs
- [`untilPromise`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/untilPromise.html): wait until promise resolves/rejects
- [`untilState`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/untilState.html): stateful version of `until`
- [`wait`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/wait.html): wait for N milliseconds or indefinitely
- [`waitFrames`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/waitFrames.html): wait for N frames/ticks
- [`withTimeout`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/withTimeout.html): wait for given fiber, but only max N milliseconds

### Composition via transducers

The [@thi.ng/transducers
package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)
can be very helpful to create complex fiber setups, for example:

```ts tangle:export/readme-2.ts
import { sequence, wait, type MaybeFiber } from "@thi.ng/fibers";
import {
    cycle,
    interpose,
    map,
    partition,
    repeatedly,
} from "@thi.ng/transducers";

const defWorkItem = (id: number) =>
    function* () {
        console.log("part", id);
    };

const defWorkGroup = (items: MaybeFiber[]) =>
    function* () {
        // interject a short pause between given work items
        // then execute in order and wait until all done
        yield* sequence(interpose(() => wait(100), items));
        console.log("---");
        yield* wait(1000);
    };

// create fiber which executes given sub-processes in order
sequence(
    // generate 25 work items
    // partition into groups of 5
    // transform into iterable of work groups
    // repeat indefinitely
    cycle(map(defWorkGroup, partition(5, repeatedly(defWorkItem, 25))))
).run();

// part 0
// part 1
// part 2
// part 3
// part 4
// ---
// part 5
// part 6
// part 7
```

### CSP primitives (Communicating Sequential Processes)

References:

- [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Communicating_sequential_processes)
- [Communicating Sequential Processes, C.A.R.
Hoare](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/359576.359585)

In addition to the operators above, the basic fiber implementation can also be
used to construct other types of primitives, like those required for
channel-based communication between processes, as proposed by Tony Hoare. The
package includes a fiber-based read/write channel primitive which can be
customized with different buffer implementations to control blocking behaviors
and backpressure handling (aka attempting to write faster to a channel than
values are being read, essentially a memory management issue).

#### Buffering behaviors

The following channel buffer types/behaviors are included, all accepting a max.
capacity and all implementing the
[IReadWriteBuffer](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/interfaces/IReadWriteBuffer.html)
interface required by the channel:

- [`fifo`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/fifo.html): First in,
  first out ring buffer. Writes to the channel will start blocking once the
  buffer's capacity is reached, otherwise complete immediately. Likewise,
  channel reads are non-blocking whilst there're more buffered values available.
  Reads will only block if the buffer is empty.
- [`lifo`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/lifo.html): Last in,
  first out. Read/write behavior is mostly the same as with `fifo`, with the
  important difference, that (as the name indicates), the last value written
  will be the first value read (i.e. stack behavior).
- [`sliding`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/sliding.html):
  Sliding window ring buffer. Writes to the channel are **never** blocking! Once
  the buffer's capacity is reached, a new write will first expunge the oldest
  buffered value (similar to LRU cache behavior). Read behavior is the same as
  for `fifo`.
- [`dropping`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/dropping.html):
  Dropping value ring buffer. Writes to the channel are **never** blocking!
  Whilst the buffer's capacity is reached, new writes will be silently ignored.
  Read behavior is the same as for `fifo`.

#### Channels

As mentioned previously,
[channels](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/channel.html) and their
[read](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/classes/Channel.html#read),
[write](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/classes/Channel.html#write) and
[close](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/classes/Channel.html#close)
operations are the key building blocks for CSP. In this fiber-based
implementation, all channel operations are executed in individual fibers to deal
with the potential blocking behaviors. This is demonstrated in the simple
example below.

In general, due to fibers not being true multi-threaded processes (all are
executed in the single thread of the JS engine), any number of fibers can read
or write to a channel.

Channels can be created like so:

```ts
// create unbuffered channel with single value capacity
const chan1 = channel();

// create channel with a FIFO buffer, capacity: 2 values
const chan2 = channel(2);

// create channel with a sliding window buffer and custom ID & logger
const chan3 = channel(
  sliding(3),
  { id: "main", logger: new ConsoleLogger("chan") }
);
```

#### CSP ping/pong example

```ts tangle:export/pingpong.ts
import { channel, fiber, wait } from "@thi.ng/fibers";
import { ConsoleLogger } from "@thi.ng/logger";

// create idle main fiber with custom options
const app = fiber(null, {
    id: "main",
    logger: new ConsoleLogger("app"),
    // if true, fiber automatically terminates once all child fibers are done
    terminate: true,
});

// create CSP channels (w/ default config)
const ping = channel<number>();
const pong = channel<number>();

// attach ping/pong child processes
app.forkAll(
    // ping
    function* () {
        while (ping.readable()) {
            // blocking read op
            // (waits until value is available in `ping` channel)
            const x = yield* ping.read();
            // check if channel was closed meanwhile
            if (x === undefined) break;
            console.log("PING", x);
            // possibly blocking (in general) write op to other channel
            yield* pong.write(x);
            // slowdown
            yield* wait(100);
        }
    },
    // pong (very similar)
    function* () {
        while (pong.readable()) {
            const x = yield* pong.read();
            if (x === undefined) break;
            console.log("PONG", x);
            // trigger next iteration
            yield* ping.write(x + 1);
        }
    },
    // channel managment
    function* () {
        // kickoff ping/pong
        yield* ping.write(0);
        yield* wait(1000);
        // wait for both channels to close
        yield* ping.close();
        yield* pong.close();
    }
);
app.run();

// [DEBUG] app: forking fib-0
// [DEBUG] app: forking fib-1
// [DEBUG] app: forking fib-2
// [DEBUG] app: running main...
// [DEBUG] app: init main
// [DEBUG] app: init fib-0
// [DEBUG] app: init fib-1
// [DEBUG] app: init fib-2
// PING 0
// PONG 0
// PING 1
// PONG 1
// ...
// PING 9
// PONG 9
// [DEBUG] app: done fib-2 undefined
// [DEBUG] app: deinit fib-2
// [DEBUG] app: done fib-1 undefined
// [DEBUG] app: deinit fib-1
// [DEBUG] app: done fib-0 undefined
// [DEBUG] app: deinit fib-0
// [DEBUG] app: cancel main
// [DEBUG] app: deinit main
```

Additional CSP operators are planned, but since everything here is based on
fibers, the various channel operations can be already combined with the
[available fiber operators/combinators](#fiber-operators)...

For example, a channel read or write op can be combined with a timeout:

```ts
const res = (yield* withTimeout(chan.read(), 1000)).deref();
if (res !== undefined) {
    console.log("read value", x);
} else {
    console.log("read timeout");
}
```

## Status

**ALPHA** - bleeding edge / work-in-progress

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bfibers%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/fibers
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/fibers"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const fibers = await import("@thi.ng/fibers");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 2.64 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/arrays](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/arrays)
- [@thi.ng/bench](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/bench)
- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/idgen](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/idgen)
- [@thi.ng/logger](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/logger)
- [@thi.ng/random](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/random)

## Usage examples

Several projects in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                            | Description                                                                                             | Live demo                                            | Source                                                                            |
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/ascii-raymarch.jpg" width="240"/> | ASCII art raymarching with thi.ng/shader-ast & thi.ng/text-canvas                                       | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/ascii-raymarch/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/ascii-raymarch) |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/fiber-basics.png" width="240"/>   | Fiber-based cooperative multitasking basics                                                             | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/fiber-basics/)   | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/fiber-basics)   |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/ifs-fractal.jpg" width="240"/>    | Barnsley fern IFS fractal renderer                                                                      | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/ifs-fractal/)    | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/ifs-fractal)    |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/mastodon-feed.jpg" width="240"/>  | Mastodon API feed reader with support for different media types, fullscreen media modal, HTML rewriting | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/mastodon-feed/)  | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/mastodon-feed)  |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/poly-subdiv.jpg" width="240"/>    | Animated, iterative polygon subdivisions & visualization                                                | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/poly-subdiv/)    | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/poly-subdiv)    |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/related-images.jpg" width="240"/> | Responsive image gallery with tag-based Jaccard similarity ranking                                      | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/related-images/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/related-images) |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/render-audio.png" width="240"/>   | Generative audio synth offline renderer and WAV file export                                             | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/render-audio/)   | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/render-audio)   |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/)

TODO

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-fibers,
  title = "@thi.ng/fibers",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/fibers",
  year = 2023
}
```

## License

&copy; 2023 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

docs: update readmes (CFP survey header)

packages/fibers/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->
> [!IMPORTANT]
> ‼️ Announcing the thi.ng user survey 2024 📋
>
> [Please participate in the survey here!](https://forms.gle/XacbSDEmQMPZg8197)\
> (open until end of February)
>
> **To achieve a better sample size, I'd highly appreciate if you could
> circulate the link to this survey in your own networks.**
>
> [Discussion](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/discussions/447)

# ![@thi.ng/fibers](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-fibers.svg?d08288cb)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/fibers.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/fibers)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/fibers.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
  - [Basic usage](#basic-usage)
  - [Fiber operators](#fiber-operators)
  - [Composition via transducers](#composition-via-transducers)
  - [CSP primitives (Communicating Sequential Processes)](#csp-primitives-communicating-sequential-processes)
    - [Buffering behaviors](#buffering-behaviors)
    - [Channels](#channels)
    - [CSP ping/pong example](#csp-pingpong-example)
- [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Process hierarchies & operators for cooperative multitasking.

This package provides a
[`Fiber`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/classes/Fiber.html) primitive
acting as wrapper around ES6 generators (co-routines) and supplements them with
nested child processes, cancellation, error & event handling and (optional)
logging features. Additionally, there're a number of fiber-related utilities and
higher order operators to construct and compose fibers.

### Basic usage

```ts tangle:export/readme-1.ts
import { fiber, wait } from "@thi.ng/fibers";
import { ConsoleLogger } from "@thi.ng/logger";

// wrap an endless generator as fiber
const app = fiber(
    function* () {
        while(true) {
            console.log("hello");
            // wait 0.25s
            yield* wait(250);
            console.log("fiber");
            // wait 1s
            yield* wait(1000);
        }
    }
);

// start processing it with default handlers
// see: https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/classes/Fiber.html#run
app.run();

// create a child process which runs semi-independently
// (only executes if parent is still active)
// child fibers are auto-removed from parent when they terminate
const child = app.fork(
    // the `ctx` arg is the fiber wrapping this generator
    function* (ctx) {
        for(let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
            ctx.logger?.debug("count", i);
            yield* wait(100);
        }
        // return value will be stored in fiber for future reference
        return 42;
    },
    // fiber options
    {
        // custom fiber ID (else autogenerated)
        id: "child-demo",
        // custom logger (default: none)
        logger: new ConsoleLogger("child")
    }
);

// hello
// [DEBUG] child: init child-demo
// [DEBUG] child: count 0
// [DEBUG] child: count 1
// [DEBUG] child: count 2
// fiber
// [DEBUG] child: done child-demo 42
// [DEBUG] child: deinit child-demo
// hello
// fiber
// hello
// ...

// once a fiber has completed, its value can be obtained
// e.g. here we create another fiber, which first waits for `child` to complete
app.fork(function* () {
    // wait for other fiber
    const result = yield* child;
    console.log("result", result);
    // alt way to obtain value
    console.log("deref", child.deref());
});
// result 42
// deref 42
```

### Fiber operators

The following operators act as basic composition helpers to construct more elaborate fiber setups:

- [`all`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/all.html): wait for all given fibers to complete
- [`asPromise`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/asPromise.html): wrap fiber as promise for use in `async` contexts
- [`first`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/first.html): wait for one of the given fibers to complete
- [`fork`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/classes/Fiber.html#fork): create & attach a new child process
- [`forkAll`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/classes/Fiber.html#forkAll): create & attach multiple child processes
- [`join`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/classes/Fiber.html#join): wait for all child processes to complete
- [`sequence`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/sequence.html): execute fibers in sequence
- [`shuffle`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/shuffle-1.html): execute fibers in constantly randomized order
- [`timeSlice`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/timeSlice.html): execute fiber in batches of N milliseconds
- [`timeSliceIterable`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/timeSliceIterable.html): consume iterable in batches of N milliseconds
- [`until`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/until.html): wait until predicate is truthy
- [`untilEvent`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/untilEvent.html): wait until event occurs
- [`untilPromise`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/untilPromise.html): wait until promise resolves/rejects
- [`untilState`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/untilState.html): stateful version of `until`
- [`wait`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/wait.html): wait for N milliseconds or indefinitely
- [`waitFrames`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/waitFrames.html): wait for N frames/ticks
- [`withTimeout`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/withTimeout.html): wait for given fiber, but only max N milliseconds

### Composition via transducers

The [@thi.ng/transducers
package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)
can be very helpful to create complex fiber setups, for example:

```ts tangle:export/readme-2.ts
import { sequence, wait, type MaybeFiber } from "@thi.ng/fibers";
import {
    cycle,
    interpose,
    map,
    partition,
    repeatedly,
} from "@thi.ng/transducers";

const defWorkItem = (id: number) =>
    function* () {
        console.log("part", id);
    };

const defWorkGroup = (items: MaybeFiber[]) =>
    function* () {
        // interject a short pause between given work items
        // then execute in order and wait until all done
        yield* sequence(interpose(() => wait(100), items));
        console.log("---");
        yield* wait(1000);
    };

// create fiber which executes given sub-processes in order
sequence(
    // generate 25 work items
    // partition into groups of 5
    // transform into iterable of work groups
    // repeat indefinitely
    cycle(map(defWorkGroup, partition(5, repeatedly(defWorkItem, 25))))
).run();

// part 0
// part 1
// part 2
// part 3
// part 4
// ---
// part 5
// part 6
// part 7
```

### CSP primitives (Communicating Sequential Processes)

References:

- [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Communicating_sequential_processes)
- [Communicating Sequential Processes, C.A.R.
Hoare](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/359576.359585)

In addition to the operators above, the basic fiber implementation can also be
used to construct other types of primitives, like those required for
channel-based communication between processes, as proposed by Tony Hoare. The
package includes a fiber-based read/write channel primitive which can be
customized with different buffer implementations to control blocking behaviors
and backpressure handling (aka attempting to write faster to a channel than
values are being read, essentially a memory management issue).

#### Buffering behaviors

The following channel buffer types/behaviors are included, all accepting a max.
capacity and all implementing the
[IReadWriteBuffer](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/interfaces/IReadWriteBuffer.html)
interface required by the channel:

- [`fifo`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/fifo.html): First in,
  first out ring buffer. Writes to the channel will start blocking once the
  buffer's capacity is reached, otherwise complete immediately. Likewise,
  channel reads are non-blocking whilst there're more buffered values available.
  Reads will only block if the buffer is empty.
- [`lifo`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/lifo.html): Last in,
  first out. Read/write behavior is mostly the same as with `fifo`, with the
  important difference, that (as the name indicates), the last value written
  will be the first value read (i.e. stack behavior).
- [`sliding`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/sliding.html):
  Sliding window ring buffer. Writes to the channel are **never** blocking! Once
  the buffer's capacity is reached, a new write will first expunge the oldest
  buffered value (similar to LRU cache behavior). Read behavior is the same as
  for `fifo`.
- [`dropping`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/dropping.html):
  Dropping value ring buffer. Writes to the channel are **never** blocking!
  Whilst the buffer's capacity is reached, new writes will be silently ignored.
  Read behavior is the same as for `fifo`.

#### Channels

As mentioned previously,
[channels](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/functions/channel.html) and their
[read](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/classes/Channel.html#read),
[write](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/classes/Channel.html#write) and
[close](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/classes/Channel.html#close)
operations are the key building blocks for CSP. In this fiber-based
implementation, all channel operations are executed in individual fibers to deal
with the potential blocking behaviors. This is demonstrated in the simple
example below.

In general, due to fibers not being true multi-threaded processes (all are
executed in the single thread of the JS engine), any number of fibers can read
or write to a channel.

Channels can be created like so:

```ts
// create unbuffered channel with single value capacity
const chan1 = channel();

// create channel with a FIFO buffer, capacity: 2 values
const chan2 = channel(2);

// create channel with a sliding window buffer and custom ID & logger
const chan3 = channel(
  sliding(3),
  { id: "main", logger: new ConsoleLogger("chan") }
);
```

#### CSP ping/pong example

```ts tangle:export/pingpong.ts
import { channel, fiber, wait } from "@thi.ng/fibers";
import { ConsoleLogger } from "@thi.ng/logger";

// create idle main fiber with custom options
const app = fiber(null, {
    id: "main",
    logger: new ConsoleLogger("app"),
    // if true, fiber automatically terminates once all child fibers are done
    terminate: true,
});

// create CSP channels (w/ default config)
const ping = channel<number>();
const pong = channel<number>();

// attach ping/pong child processes
app.forkAll(
    // ping
    function* () {
        while (ping.readable()) {
            // blocking read op
            // (waits until value is available in `ping` channel)
            const x = yield* ping.read();
            // check if channel was closed meanwhile
            if (x === undefined) break;
            console.log("PING", x);
            // possibly blocking (in general) write op to other channel
            yield* pong.write(x);
            // slowdown
            yield* wait(100);
        }
    },
    // pong (very similar)
    function* () {
        while (pong.readable()) {
            const x = yield* pong.read();
            if (x === undefined) break;
            console.log("PONG", x);
            // trigger next iteration
            yield* ping.write(x + 1);
        }
    },
    // channel managment
    function* () {
        // kickoff ping/pong
        yield* ping.write(0);
        yield* wait(1000);
        // wait for both channels to close
        yield* ping.close();
        yield* pong.close();
    }
);
app.run();

// [DEBUG] app: forking fib-0
// [DEBUG] app: forking fib-1
// [DEBUG] app: forking fib-2
// [DEBUG] app: running main...
// [DEBUG] app: init main
// [DEBUG] app: init fib-0
// [DEBUG] app: init fib-1
// [DEBUG] app: init fib-2
// PING 0
// PONG 0
// PING 1
// PONG 1
// ...
// PING 9
// PONG 9
// [DEBUG] app: done fib-2 undefined
// [DEBUG] app: deinit fib-2
// [DEBUG] app: done fib-1 undefined
// [DEBUG] app: deinit fib-1
// [DEBUG] app: done fib-0 undefined
// [DEBUG] app: deinit fib-0
// [DEBUG] app: cancel main
// [DEBUG] app: deinit main
```

Additional CSP operators are planned, but since everything here is based on
fibers, the various channel operations can be already combined with the
[available fiber operators/combinators](#fiber-operators)...

For example, a channel read or write op can be combined with a timeout:

```ts
const res = (yield* withTimeout(chan.read(), 1000)).deref();
if (res !== undefined) {
    console.log("read value", x);
} else {
    console.log("read timeout");
}
```

## Status

**ALPHA** - bleeding edge / work-in-progress

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bfibers%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/fibers
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/fibers"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const fibers = await import("@thi.ng/fibers");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 2.64 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/arrays](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/arrays)
- [@thi.ng/bench](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/bench)
- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/idgen](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/idgen)
- [@thi.ng/logger](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/logger)
- [@thi.ng/random](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/random)

## Usage examples

Several projects in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                            | Description                                                                                             | Live demo                                            | Source                                                                            |
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/ascii-raymarch.jpg" width="240"/> | ASCII art raymarching with thi.ng/shader-ast & thi.ng/text-canvas                                       | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/ascii-raymarch/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/ascii-raymarch) |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/fiber-basics.png" width="240"/>   | Fiber-based cooperative multitasking basics                                                             | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/fiber-basics/)   | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/fiber-basics)   |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/ifs-fractal.jpg" width="240"/>    | Barnsley fern IFS fractal renderer                                                                      | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/ifs-fractal/)    | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/ifs-fractal)    |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/mastodon-feed.jpg" width="240"/>  | Mastodon API feed reader with support for different media types, fullscreen media modal, HTML rewriting | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/mastodon-feed/)  | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/mastodon-feed)  |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/poly-subdiv.jpg" width="240"/>    | Animated, iterative polygon subdivisions & visualization                                                | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/poly-subdiv/)    | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/poly-subdiv)    |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/related-images.jpg" width="240"/> | Responsive image gallery with tag-based Jaccard similarity ranking                                      | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/related-images/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/related-images) |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/render-audio.png" width="240"/>   | Generative audio synth offline renderer and WAV file export                                             | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/render-audio/)   | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/render-audio)   |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/fibers/)

TODO

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-fibers,
  title = "@thi.ng/fibers",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/fibers",
  year = 2023
}
```

## License

&copy; 2023 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0
