packages/date/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/date](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-date.svg?954b4ac2)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/date.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/date)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/date.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
  - [DateTime](#datetime)
  - [Math & comparison](#math--comparison)
  - [Iterators](#iterators)
  - [Relative dates](#relative-dates)
    - [Parsing](#parsing)
    - [Formatting](#formatting)
  - [Date & time formatters](#date--time-formatters)
  - [Timecodes](#timecodes)
  - [Locales](#locales)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Datetime types, relative dates, math, iterators, composable formatters, locales.

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bdate%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/date
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/date"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const date = await import("@thi.ng/date");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 5.36 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/strings](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/strings)

## Usage examples

Several projects in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                            | Description                                                                                             | Live demo                                            | Source                                                                            |
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/commit-heatmap.png" width="240"/> | Heatmap visualization of this mono-repo's commits                                                       |                                                      | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/commit-heatmap) |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/mastodon-feed.jpg" width="240"/>  | Mastodon API feed reader with support for different media types, fullscreen media modal, HTML rewriting | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/mastodon-feed/)  | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/mastodon-feed)  |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/pointfree-geom.jpg" width="240"/> | Live coding playground for 2D geometry generation using @thi.ng/pointfree-lang                          | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/pointfree-geom/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/pointfree-geom) |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/zig-todo-list.png" width="240"/>  | Zig-based To-Do list, DOM creation, local storage task persistence                                      | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/zig-todo-list/)  | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/zig-todo-list)  |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/date/)

TODO - Please see tests and doc strings in source for now...

### DateTime

The `DateTime` class acts as a thin wrapper around **UTC** epochs/timestamps,
with the constructor supporting coercions and varying granularity/precision
(from years to milliseconds). Default precision is milliseconds.

| Key | Precision   |
|-----|-------------|
| `y` | Year        |
| `M` | Month       |
| `d` | Day         |
| `h` | Hour        |
| `m` | Minute      |
| `s` | Second      |
| `t` | Millisecond |

Note: `DateTime` instances also define the above keys as properties, plus
getters for week-in-year (`.w`) and quarter (`.q`).

```ts
// create w/ current date (or pass epoch, string, Date or DateTime instances)
const a = dateTime();
// DateTime { y: 2020, M: 8, d: 19, h: 12, m: 17, s: 16, t: 884 }

// provide additional precision (here year only)
const b = dateTime(a, "y");
// or
const b = a.withPrecision("y")
// DateTime { y: 2020, M: 0, d: 1, h: 0, m: 0, s: 0, t: 0 }

a.toString();
// Sat Sep 19 2020 12:17:16 GMT'
a.toISOString()
// '2020-09-19T12:17:16.884Z'

b.toISOString();
// 2020-01-01T00:00:00.000Z

a.isLeapYear()
// true

a.daysInMonth()
// 30

a.dayInYear()
// 263

a.weekInYear()
// 38

a.isAfter(b)
// true\

b.isBefore(a)
// true
```

### Math & comparison

DateTime instances support basic math to derive future/past instances, given an
offset period. Period identifiers are any `Precision` ID (see above) or `w`
(week, aka 7 days) or `q` (quarter, aka 3 months):

```ts
const a = dateTime();
// DateTime { y: 2020, M: 8, d: 19, h: 12, m: 17, s: 16, t: 884 }

// create new instance 61 seconds in the future
// any `Period` ID can be used
a.add(61, "s")
// DateTime { y: 2020, M: 8, d: 19, h: 12, m: 18, s: 17, t: 884 }

// ...or 90 days ago
a.add(-90, "d")
// DateTime { y: 2020, M: 5, d: 21, h: 12, m: 17, s: 16, t: 884 }

// ...or 2 quarters (aka 2x 3 months) ahead of time
a.add(2, "q").toISOString()
// "2021-03-19T12:17:16.884Z"

// check for equivalence
a.equiv("2020-09-19T12:17:16.884Z")
// true

// are dates equal (with tolerance of ±100 ms)
a.eqDelta(a.add(99, "t"), 100)
// true

a.compare(a.add(1, "s"))
// -1000

// compute (signed) difference between dates (in milliseconds)
difference(a, "1970-01-01") === a.getTime()
// true

// difference = a - b
difference("2020-02", "2021-02")
// -31622400000

// always produces unsigned result
absDifference("2020-02", "2021-02")
// 31622400000

// compute abs difference in days
asDays(absDifference("2020-02", "2021-02"))
// 366 (because 2020 was a leap year)
```

### Iterators

Several iterators are provided to produce timestamps of various granularities
between two given dates. Originally, these were intended for visualization
purposes (i.e. as axis tick label generators for
[@thi.ng/viz](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/viz)).

- `years()`
- `querters()`
- `months()`
- `weeks()`
- `days()`
- `hours()`
- `minutes()`
- `seconds()`
- `milliseconds()`

```ts
[...months("2021-01-03", "2021-07-16")]
// [
//   1609459200000,
//   1612137600000,
//   1614556800000,
//   1617235200000,
//   1619827200000,
//   1622505600000,
//   1625097600000
// ]

[...months("2021-01-03", "2021-07-16")].map((x) => FMT_yyyyMMdd(x))
// [
//   '2021-02-01',
//   '2021-03-01',
//   '2021-04-01',
//   '2021-05-01',
//   '2021-06-01',
//   '2021-07-01'
// ]
```

### Relative dates

#### Parsing

Relative dates can be obtained via
[`parseRelative()`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/date/functions/parseRelative.html)
or [`relative()`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/date/functions/relative.html).

```ts
const now = dateTime();
// DateTime { y: 2021, M: 2, d: 21, h: 14, m: 26, s: 0, t: 661 }

// see the linked documentation for all supported formats
parseRelative("2 weeks ago", now);
// DateTime { y: 2021, M: 2, d: 7, h: 14, m: 26, s: 0, t: 661 }

parseRelative("an hour", now);
// DateTime { y: 2021, M: 2, d: 21, h: 15, m: 26, s: 0, t: 661 }

parseRelative("tomorrow", now);
// DateTime { y: 2021, M: 2, d: 22, h: 14, m: 26, s: 0, t: 661 }

parseRelative("-1 month", now)
// DateTime { y: 2021, M: 1, d: 21, h: 14, m: 26, s: 0, t: 661 }
```

#### Formatting

Dates can be formatted as relative descriptions using
[`formatRelative()`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/date/functions/formatRelative.html)
and
[`formatRelativeParts()`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/date/functions/formatRelativeParts.html).
Both functions use the currently active [locale](#locales) and accept an optional
reference date (default: now).

```ts
setLocale(EN_LONG);

formatRelative("2020-06-01", "2021-07-01")
// "1 year ago"
formatRelative("2020-08-01", "2021-07-01")
// "11 months ago"
formatRelative("2021-07-01 13:45", "2021-07-01 12:05")
// "in 2 hours"
formatRelative("2021-07-01 12:23:24", "2021-07-01 12:05")
// "in 18 minutes"

// with default precision (seconds)
formatRelativeParts("2012-12-25 17:59:34", "2021-07-16 12:05")
// "8 years, 6 months, 21 days, 17 hours, 5 minutes, 26 seconds ago"

// with day precision
formatRelativeParts("2012-12-25 17:59:34", "2021-07-16 12:05", "d")
// "8 years, 6 months, 22 days ago"

// with month precision
formatRelativeParts("2012-12-25 17:59:34", "2021-07-16 12:05", "M")
// "8 years, 7 months ago"

formatRelativeParts("2021-07-16", "2021-01-01", "y")
// "in less than 1 year"

// with locale DE_LONG
withLocale(DE_LONG, () => formatRelativeParts("2020-01-01 12:34"))
// "vor 1 Jahr, 6 Monaten, 15 Tagen, 23 Stunden, 38 Minuten, 9 Sekunden"

// obtain the relative parts in raw form
// returns tuple of: [sign, years, months, days, hours, mins, secs, millis]
decomposeDifference("2020-01-01 12:34", Date.now())
// [-1, 1, 6, 15, 23, 38, 9, 703]

// format a duration (in ms), optionally with given precision
formatDuration(45296000)
// "12 h, 34 min, 56 s"

formatDuration(45296000, "h")
// "13 h"

formatDuration(45296000,"d")
// "< 1 d"
```

### Date & time formatters

Custom date/time formatters can be assembled via
[`defFormat()`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/date/functions/defFormat.html),
using the following partial format identifiers. The `MMM` and `E` formatters use
the currently active [locale](#locales). To escape a formatter and use as a
string literal, prefix the term with `\\`.

| ID     | Description                                 |
|--------|---------------------------------------------|
| `yy`   | Short year (2 digits)                       |
| `yyyy` | Full year (4 digits)                        |
| `M`    | Unpadded month                              |
| `MM`   | Zero-padded 2-digit month                   |
| `MMM`  | Month name in current locale (e.g. `Feb`)   |
| `d`    | Unpadded day of month                       |
| `dd`   | Zero-padded 2-digit day of month            |
| `E`    | Weekday name in current locale (e.g. `Mon`) |
| `w`    | Unpadded week-in-year (ISO8601)             |
| `ww`   | Zero-padded 2-digit week-in-year (ISO8601)  |
| `q`    | Unpadded quarter                            |
| `H`    | Unpadded hour of day (0-23)                 |
| `HH`   | Zero-padded 2-digit hour of day (0-23)      |
| `h`    | Unpadded hour of day (1-12)                 |
| `m`    | Unpadded minute of hour                     |
| `mm`   | Zero-padded 2-digit minute of hour          |
| `s`    | Unpadded second of minute                   |
| `ss`   | Zero-padded 2-digit second of minute        |
| `S`    | Unpadded millisecond of second              |
| `SS`   | Zero-padded 3-digit millisecond of second   |
| `A`    | 12-hour AM/PM marker (uppercase)            |
| `a`    | 12-hour am/pm marker (lowercase)            |
| `Z`    | Timezone offset in signed `±HH:mm` format   |
| `ZZ`   | Same as `Z`, but special handling for UTC   |
| `/ED`  | Locale-specific weekday-day separator       |
| `/DM`  | Locale-specific day-month separator         |
| `/MY`  | Locale-specific month-year separator        |
| `/HM`  | Locale-specific hour-minute separator       |

<small>(Format IDs somewhat based on Java's
[SimpleDateFormat](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/12/docs/api/java.base/java/text/SimpleDateFormat.html))</small>

The following preset formatters are available:

- `FMT_ISO_SHORT` - `"2020-09-13T21:42:07Z"`
- `FMT_yyyyMMdd` - `"2020-09-13"`
- `FMT_Mdyyyy` - `"9/13/2020"`
- `FMT_MMMdyyyy` - `"Sep 13 2020"`
- `FMT_dMyyyy` - `"13/9/2020"`
- `FMT_dMMMyyyy` - `"13 Sep 2020"`
- `FMT_yyyyMMdd_HHmmss` - `20200913-214207`
- `FMT_HHmm` - `"21:42"`
- `FMT_hm` - `"9:42 PM"`
- `FMT_HHmmss` - `"21:42:07"`
- `FMT_hms` - `"9:42:07 PM"`

### Timecodes

For timebased media applications, the higher-order `defTimecode()` can be used
to create a formatter for a given FPS (frames / second, in [1..1000] range),
e.g. `HH:mm:ss:ff`. The returned function takes a single arg (time in
milliseconds) and returns formatted string.

The timecode considers days too, but only includes them in the result if the day
part is non-zero. The 4 separators between each field can be customized via 2nd
arg (default: all `:`).

```ts
a = defTimecode(30);
a(1*HOUR + 2*MINUTE + 3*SECOND + 4*1000/30)
// "01:02:03:04"

a(DAY);
// "01:00:00:00:00"

b = defTimecode(30, ["d ", "h ", "' ", '" ']);
b(Day + HOUR + 2*MINUTE + 3*SECOND + 999)
// "01d 01h 02' 03" 29"
```

### Locales

The following locale presets are available by default:

| Preset     | Example                          |
|------------|----------------------------------|
| `DE_SHORT` | `29.6.2021 @ 5:48`               |
| `DE_LONG`  | `Dienstag, 29. Juni 2021 @ 5:48` |
| `EN_SHORT` | `29/06/2021 @ 5.48 am`           |
| `EN_LONG`  | `Tuesday 29 June 2021 @ 5.48 am` |
| `ES_LONG`  | `martes 29 junio 2021 @ 5:48`    |
| `FR_LONG`  | `mardi 29 juin 2021 @ 5h 48`     |
| `IT_LONG`  | `martedì 29 giugno 2021 @ 5.48`  |

The `MMM` (month) and `E` (weekday) formatters make use of the strings provided
by the current `LOCALE` (default: `EN_SHORT`) and can be set/changed via the
`setLocale()` function:

```ts
const fmt = defFormat(["E", " ", "d", " ", "MMM", " ", "yyyy"]);

setLocale(EN_SHORT); // default
// {
//   months: [
//     'Jan', 'Feb', 'Mar', 'Apr', 'May', 'Jun',
//     'Jul', 'Aug', 'Sep', 'Oct', 'Nov', 'Dec'
//   ],
//   days: [ 'Sun', 'Mon', 'Tue', 'Wed', 'Thu', 'Fri', 'Sat' ]
// }

fmt(dateTime());
// Sat 19 Sep 2020

setLocale(EN_LONG);

fmt(dateTime());
// Saturday 19 September 2020
```

Use [`withLocale()`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/date/functions/withLocale.html)
to only temporarily set a locale and execute a function with it, then
automatically restoring the currently active locale.

```ts
fmt(dateTime());
// 'Fri 16 Jul 2021'

withLocale(FR_LONG, () => fmt(dateTime()));
// 'vendredi 16 juillet 2021'

fmt(dateTime());
// 'Fri 16 Jul 2021'
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-date,
  title = "@thi.ng/date",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/date",
  year = 2020
}
```

## License

&copy; 2020 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

docs: update readmes (CFP survey header)

packages/date/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->
> [!IMPORTANT]
> ‼️ Announcing the thi.ng user survey 2024 📋
>
> [Please participate in the survey here!](https://forms.gle/XacbSDEmQMPZg8197)\
> (open until end of February)
>
> **To achieve a better sample size, I'd highly appreciate if you could
> circulate the link to this survey in your own networks.**
>
> [Discussion](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/discussions/447)

# ![@thi.ng/date](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-date.svg?954b4ac2)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/date.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/date)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/date.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
  - [DateTime](#datetime)
  - [Math & comparison](#math--comparison)
  - [Iterators](#iterators)
  - [Relative dates](#relative-dates)
    - [Parsing](#parsing)
    - [Formatting](#formatting)
  - [Date & time formatters](#date--time-formatters)
  - [Timecodes](#timecodes)
  - [Locales](#locales)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Datetime types, relative dates, math, iterators, composable formatters, locales.

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bdate%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/date
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/date"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const date = await import("@thi.ng/date");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 5.36 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/strings](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/strings)

## Usage examples

Several projects in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                            | Description                                                                                             | Live demo                                            | Source                                                                            |
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/commit-heatmap.png" width="240"/> | Heatmap visualization of this mono-repo's commits                                                       |                                                      | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/commit-heatmap) |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/mastodon-feed.jpg" width="240"/>  | Mastodon API feed reader with support for different media types, fullscreen media modal, HTML rewriting | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/mastodon-feed/)  | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/mastodon-feed)  |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/pointfree-geom.jpg" width="240"/> | Live coding playground for 2D geometry generation using @thi.ng/pointfree-lang                          | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/pointfree-geom/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/pointfree-geom) |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/zig-todo-list.png" width="240"/>  | Zig-based To-Do list, DOM creation, local storage task persistence                                      | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/zig-todo-list/)  | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/zig-todo-list)  |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/date/)

TODO - Please see tests and doc strings in source for now...

### DateTime

The `DateTime` class acts as a thin wrapper around **UTC** epochs/timestamps,
with the constructor supporting coercions and varying granularity/precision
(from years to milliseconds). Default precision is milliseconds.

| Key | Precision   |
|-----|-------------|
| `y` | Year        |
| `M` | Month       |
| `d` | Day         |
| `h` | Hour        |
| `m` | Minute      |
| `s` | Second      |
| `t` | Millisecond |

Note: `DateTime` instances also define the above keys as properties, plus
getters for week-in-year (`.w`) and quarter (`.q`).

```ts
// create w/ current date (or pass epoch, string, Date or DateTime instances)
const a = dateTime();
// DateTime { y: 2020, M: 8, d: 19, h: 12, m: 17, s: 16, t: 884 }

// provide additional precision (here year only)
const b = dateTime(a, "y");
// or
const b = a.withPrecision("y")
// DateTime { y: 2020, M: 0, d: 1, h: 0, m: 0, s: 0, t: 0 }

a.toString();
// Sat Sep 19 2020 12:17:16 GMT'
a.toISOString()
// '2020-09-19T12:17:16.884Z'

b.toISOString();
// 2020-01-01T00:00:00.000Z

a.isLeapYear()
// true

a.daysInMonth()
// 30

a.dayInYear()
// 263

a.weekInYear()
// 38

a.isAfter(b)
// true\

b.isBefore(a)
// true
```

### Math & comparison

DateTime instances support basic math to derive future/past instances, given an
offset period. Period identifiers are any `Precision` ID (see above) or `w`
(week, aka 7 days) or `q` (quarter, aka 3 months):

```ts
const a = dateTime();
// DateTime { y: 2020, M: 8, d: 19, h: 12, m: 17, s: 16, t: 884 }

// create new instance 61 seconds in the future
// any `Period` ID can be used
a.add(61, "s")
// DateTime { y: 2020, M: 8, d: 19, h: 12, m: 18, s: 17, t: 884 }

// ...or 90 days ago
a.add(-90, "d")
// DateTime { y: 2020, M: 5, d: 21, h: 12, m: 17, s: 16, t: 884 }

// ...or 2 quarters (aka 2x 3 months) ahead of time
a.add(2, "q").toISOString()
// "2021-03-19T12:17:16.884Z"

// check for equivalence
a.equiv("2020-09-19T12:17:16.884Z")
// true

// are dates equal (with tolerance of ±100 ms)
a.eqDelta(a.add(99, "t"), 100)
// true

a.compare(a.add(1, "s"))
// -1000

// compute (signed) difference between dates (in milliseconds)
difference(a, "1970-01-01") === a.getTime()
// true

// difference = a - b
difference("2020-02", "2021-02")
// -31622400000

// always produces unsigned result
absDifference("2020-02", "2021-02")
// 31622400000

// compute abs difference in days
asDays(absDifference("2020-02", "2021-02"))
// 366 (because 2020 was a leap year)
```

### Iterators

Several iterators are provided to produce timestamps of various granularities
between two given dates. Originally, these were intended for visualization
purposes (i.e. as axis tick label generators for
[@thi.ng/viz](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/viz)).

- `years()`
- `querters()`
- `months()`
- `weeks()`
- `days()`
- `hours()`
- `minutes()`
- `seconds()`
- `milliseconds()`

```ts
[...months("2021-01-03", "2021-07-16")]
// [
//   1609459200000,
//   1612137600000,
//   1614556800000,
//   1617235200000,
//   1619827200000,
//   1622505600000,
//   1625097600000
// ]

[...months("2021-01-03", "2021-07-16")].map((x) => FMT_yyyyMMdd(x))
// [
//   '2021-02-01',
//   '2021-03-01',
//   '2021-04-01',
//   '2021-05-01',
//   '2021-06-01',
//   '2021-07-01'
// ]
```

### Relative dates

#### Parsing

Relative dates can be obtained via
[`parseRelative()`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/date/functions/parseRelative.html)
or [`relative()`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/date/functions/relative.html).

```ts
const now = dateTime();
// DateTime { y: 2021, M: 2, d: 21, h: 14, m: 26, s: 0, t: 661 }

// see the linked documentation for all supported formats
parseRelative("2 weeks ago", now);
// DateTime { y: 2021, M: 2, d: 7, h: 14, m: 26, s: 0, t: 661 }

parseRelative("an hour", now);
// DateTime { y: 2021, M: 2, d: 21, h: 15, m: 26, s: 0, t: 661 }

parseRelative("tomorrow", now);
// DateTime { y: 2021, M: 2, d: 22, h: 14, m: 26, s: 0, t: 661 }

parseRelative("-1 month", now)
// DateTime { y: 2021, M: 1, d: 21, h: 14, m: 26, s: 0, t: 661 }
```

#### Formatting

Dates can be formatted as relative descriptions using
[`formatRelative()`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/date/functions/formatRelative.html)
and
[`formatRelativeParts()`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/date/functions/formatRelativeParts.html).
Both functions use the currently active [locale](#locales) and accept an optional
reference date (default: now).

```ts
setLocale(EN_LONG);

formatRelative("2020-06-01", "2021-07-01")
// "1 year ago"
formatRelative("2020-08-01", "2021-07-01")
// "11 months ago"
formatRelative("2021-07-01 13:45", "2021-07-01 12:05")
// "in 2 hours"
formatRelative("2021-07-01 12:23:24", "2021-07-01 12:05")
// "in 18 minutes"

// with default precision (seconds)
formatRelativeParts("2012-12-25 17:59:34", "2021-07-16 12:05")
// "8 years, 6 months, 21 days, 17 hours, 5 minutes, 26 seconds ago"

// with day precision
formatRelativeParts("2012-12-25 17:59:34", "2021-07-16 12:05", "d")
// "8 years, 6 months, 22 days ago"

// with month precision
formatRelativeParts("2012-12-25 17:59:34", "2021-07-16 12:05", "M")
// "8 years, 7 months ago"

formatRelativeParts("2021-07-16", "2021-01-01", "y")
// "in less than 1 year"

// with locale DE_LONG
withLocale(DE_LONG, () => formatRelativeParts("2020-01-01 12:34"))
// "vor 1 Jahr, 6 Monaten, 15 Tagen, 23 Stunden, 38 Minuten, 9 Sekunden"

// obtain the relative parts in raw form
// returns tuple of: [sign, years, months, days, hours, mins, secs, millis]
decomposeDifference("2020-01-01 12:34", Date.now())
// [-1, 1, 6, 15, 23, 38, 9, 703]

// format a duration (in ms), optionally with given precision
formatDuration(45296000)
// "12 h, 34 min, 56 s"

formatDuration(45296000, "h")
// "13 h"

formatDuration(45296000,"d")
// "< 1 d"
```

### Date & time formatters

Custom date/time formatters can be assembled via
[`defFormat()`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/date/functions/defFormat.html),
using the following partial format identifiers. The `MMM` and `E` formatters use
the currently active [locale](#locales). To escape a formatter and use as a
string literal, prefix the term with `\\`.

| ID     | Description                                 |
|--------|---------------------------------------------|
| `yy`   | Short year (2 digits)                       |
| `yyyy` | Full year (4 digits)                        |
| `M`    | Unpadded month                              |
| `MM`   | Zero-padded 2-digit month                   |
| `MMM`  | Month name in current locale (e.g. `Feb`)   |
| `d`    | Unpadded day of month                       |
| `dd`   | Zero-padded 2-digit day of month            |
| `E`    | Weekday name in current locale (e.g. `Mon`) |
| `w`    | Unpadded week-in-year (ISO8601)             |
| `ww`   | Zero-padded 2-digit week-in-year (ISO8601)  |
| `q`    | Unpadded quarter                            |
| `H`    | Unpadded hour of day (0-23)                 |
| `HH`   | Zero-padded 2-digit hour of day (0-23)      |
| `h`    | Unpadded hour of day (1-12)                 |
| `m`    | Unpadded minute of hour                     |
| `mm`   | Zero-padded 2-digit minute of hour          |
| `s`    | Unpadded second of minute                   |
| `ss`   | Zero-padded 2-digit second of minute        |
| `S`    | Unpadded millisecond of second              |
| `SS`   | Zero-padded 3-digit millisecond of second   |
| `A`    | 12-hour AM/PM marker (uppercase)            |
| `a`    | 12-hour am/pm marker (lowercase)            |
| `Z`    | Timezone offset in signed `±HH:mm` format   |
| `ZZ`   | Same as `Z`, but special handling for UTC   |
| `/ED`  | Locale-specific weekday-day separator       |
| `/DM`  | Locale-specific day-month separator         |
| `/MY`  | Locale-specific month-year separator        |
| `/HM`  | Locale-specific hour-minute separator       |

<small>(Format IDs somewhat based on Java's
[SimpleDateFormat](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/12/docs/api/java.base/java/text/SimpleDateFormat.html))</small>

The following preset formatters are available:

- `FMT_ISO_SHORT` - `"2020-09-13T21:42:07Z"`
- `FMT_yyyyMMdd` - `"2020-09-13"`
- `FMT_Mdyyyy` - `"9/13/2020"`
- `FMT_MMMdyyyy` - `"Sep 13 2020"`
- `FMT_dMyyyy` - `"13/9/2020"`
- `FMT_dMMMyyyy` - `"13 Sep 2020"`
- `FMT_yyyyMMdd_HHmmss` - `20200913-214207`
- `FMT_HHmm` - `"21:42"`
- `FMT_hm` - `"9:42 PM"`
- `FMT_HHmmss` - `"21:42:07"`
- `FMT_hms` - `"9:42:07 PM"`

### Timecodes

For timebased media applications, the higher-order `defTimecode()` can be used
to create a formatter for a given FPS (frames / second, in [1..1000] range),
e.g. `HH:mm:ss:ff`. The returned function takes a single arg (time in
milliseconds) and returns formatted string.

The timecode considers days too, but only includes them in the result if the day
part is non-zero. The 4 separators between each field can be customized via 2nd
arg (default: all `:`).

```ts
a = defTimecode(30);
a(1*HOUR + 2*MINUTE + 3*SECOND + 4*1000/30)
// "01:02:03:04"

a(DAY);
// "01:00:00:00:00"

b = defTimecode(30, ["d ", "h ", "' ", '" ']);
b(Day + HOUR + 2*MINUTE + 3*SECOND + 999)
// "01d 01h 02' 03" 29"
```

### Locales

The following locale presets are available by default:

| Preset     | Example                          |
|------------|----------------------------------|
| `DE_SHORT` | `29.6.2021 @ 5:48`               |
| `DE_LONG`  | `Dienstag, 29. Juni 2021 @ 5:48` |
| `EN_SHORT` | `29/06/2021 @ 5.48 am`           |
| `EN_LONG`  | `Tuesday 29 June 2021 @ 5.48 am` |
| `ES_LONG`  | `martes 29 junio 2021 @ 5:48`    |
| `FR_LONG`  | `mardi 29 juin 2021 @ 5h 48`     |
| `IT_LONG`  | `martedì 29 giugno 2021 @ 5.48`  |

The `MMM` (month) and `E` (weekday) formatters make use of the strings provided
by the current `LOCALE` (default: `EN_SHORT`) and can be set/changed via the
`setLocale()` function:

```ts
const fmt = defFormat(["E", " ", "d", " ", "MMM", " ", "yyyy"]);

setLocale(EN_SHORT); // default
// {
//   months: [
//     'Jan', 'Feb', 'Mar', 'Apr', 'May', 'Jun',
//     'Jul', 'Aug', 'Sep', 'Oct', 'Nov', 'Dec'
//   ],
//   days: [ 'Sun', 'Mon', 'Tue', 'Wed', 'Thu', 'Fri', 'Sat' ]
// }

fmt(dateTime());
// Sat 19 Sep 2020

setLocale(EN_LONG);

fmt(dateTime());
// Saturday 19 September 2020
```

Use [`withLocale()`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/date/functions/withLocale.html)
to only temporarily set a locale and execute a function with it, then
automatically restoring the currently active locale.

```ts
fmt(dateTime());
// 'Fri 16 Jul 2021'

withLocale(FR_LONG, () => fmt(dateTime()));
// 'vendredi 16 juillet 2021'

fmt(dateTime());
// 'Fri 16 Jul 2021'
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-date,
  title = "@thi.ng/date",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/date",
  year = 2020
}
```

## License

&copy; 2020 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0
