packages/hiccup-css/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/hiccup-css](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-hiccup-css.svg?a302745b)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/hiccup-css.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/hiccup-css)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/hiccup-css.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Features](#features)
- [Use cases](#use-cases)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
  - [css()](#css)
  - [Property formatting only](#property-formatting-only)
  - [Basic selectors](#basic-selectors)
  - [Property object merging & re-use](#property-object-merging--re-use)
  - [Iterators & CSS class scoping](#iterators--css-class-scoping)
  - [Nested selectors](#nested-selectors)
  - [Pseudo-classes](#pseudo-classes)
  - [Attribute selectors](#attribute-selectors)
  - [Auto-prefixed properties](#auto-prefixed-properties)
  - [Media queries](#media-queries)
  - [Keyframes](#keyframes)
  - [Animations](#animations)
  - [DOM stylesheet injection](#dom-stylesheet-injection)
  - [General function handling](#general-function-handling)
    - [Functions in scope head position](#functions-in-scope-head-position)
    - [Functions in other positions](#functions-in-other-positions)
  - [Quoted functions](#quoted-functions)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

CSS from nested JS data structures. This is a support package for [@thi.ng/hiccup](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup).

Following a similar pattern as the
[@thi.ng/hiccup](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup)
package, this library generates CSS from plain nested arrays / data
structures, functions, iterators.

## Features

- Uses JS arrays to define selector scopes
- Uses JS object to define selector properties
  - Multiple objects per scope are combined automatically
- Supports nested selectors and computes their cartesian products
- Optional CSS class scoping
- DOM stylesheet injection
- Configurable auto-prefixed properties & vendor prefixes (disabled by
  default)
- Automatically consumes embedded iterators
- Supports embedded functions, either:
  - to define entire selector branches/scopes
  - to produce single selector items
  - to produce property values
- Quoted functions to support CSS-as-JSON definitions
- Various @-rule function wrappers:
  - `@import`
  - `@keyframes`
  - `@media` (incl. nested media queries)
  - `@namespace`
  - `@supports`
- Attribute selector functions
- Unit formatting wrappers (no conversions yet)
- Customizable formatting (2 defaults for compact & pretty printing)

## Use cases

- Same as LESS / SASS etc., but enables full use of ES6 to define style rules
- CSS framework & theme generators
- Dynamic CSS generation for components

The overall approach of using S-expressions was inspired by these
Clojure projects:

- [hiccup](https://github.com/weavejester/hiccup)
- [garden](https://github.com/noprompt/garden)

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bhiccup-css%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/hiccup-html](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup-html) - 100+ type-checked HTML5 element functions for [@thi.ng/hiccup](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup) related infrastructure
- [@thi.ng/hiccup-svg](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup-svg) - SVG element functions for [@thi.ng/hiccup](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup) & related tooling

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/hiccup-css
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/hiccup-css"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const hiccupCss = await import("@thi.ng/hiccup-css");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 2.15 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)

## Usage examples

Several projects in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                                         | Description                                         | Live demo                                                         | Source                                                                                         |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/hdom-benchmark2.png" width="240"/>             | hdom update performance benchmark w/ config options | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/hdom-benchmark2/)             | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/hdom-benchmark2)             |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/hiccup-css-image-transition.jpg" width="240"/> | Generating pure CSS image transitions               | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/hiccup-css-image-transition/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/hiccup-css-image-transition) |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/hiccup-css/)

```ts
import * as css from "@thi.ng/hiccup-css";
```

### css()

Signature: `css(rules: any, opts?: CSSOpts): string`

This is the main function exposed by this module. It accepts a JS data
structure (array, object, iterator or function) and returns a CSS
string. The optional `opts` arg is used to control formatting,
auto-prefixing and other conversion options. See
[api.ts](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup-css/src/api.ts)
for reference.

By default the generated CSS uses the `css.COMPACT` format, causing
"minimized" outputs. Pretty printing is supported via the `css.PRETTY`
format preset, see examples further below.

### Property formatting only

This feature is only intended for setting an element's `.style` attrib:

```ts
css.css({
    position: "absolute",
    border: 0,
    // function is evaluated during serialization
    top: () => css.percent((Math.random() * 100) | 0),
    // the entire properties object is passed to functions
    left: (props) => css.px(props.border),
    // arrays are joined with `,`
    // nested arrays are joined w/ ` `
    font: [["72px", "ComicSans"], "sans-serif"]
});

// "position:absolute;border:0;top:23%;left:0px;font:72px ComicSans,sans-serif;"
```

### Basic selectors

```ts
css.css(
    [
        ["html", "body", { margin: 0, padding: 0 }],
        ["div", { "max-width": css.rem(30)}],
        ["div.title", { color: "red" }]
    ],
    { format: css.PRETTY }
);
```

```css
html, body {
    margin: 0;
    padding: 0;
}

div {
    max-width: 30rem;
}

div.title {
    color: red;
}
```

### Property object merging & re-use

```ts
// re-usable property snippets
const border = { border: "1px solid black" };
const red = { color: "red" };

css.css(
    [
        ["#foo", { background: "white" }, border, red],
        ["#bar", { background: "yellow", color: "black" }, border]
    ],
    { format: css.PRETTY }
);
```

```css
#foo {
    background: white;
    border: 1px solid black;
    color: red;
}

#bar {
    background: yellow;
    color: black;
    border: 1px solid black;
}
```

### Iterators & CSS class scoping

```ts
import * as tx from "@thi.ng/transducers";

// single rule generator
// e.g. `[".w25", { width: "25%" }]`
const prop = (id, key) => (x) => [id + x, {[key]: css.percent(x)}];

css.css(
    // define iterator to produce a number of width & height css classes
    // `juxt` is used to process given percentage values in parallel and produces a tuple
    // `mapcat` is used to dissolve the tuple and produce a flat stream of generated rules
    // REMEMBER: iterators are lazy and can only be consumed once (not a problem here)
    tx.iterator(
        tx.mapcat(tx.juxt(prop(".w", "width"), prop(".h", "height"))),
        tx.range(25, 101, 25)
    ),
    // supply a scope ID (suffix) for all class names
    { format: css.PRETTY, scope: "_xyz" }
);
```

```css
.w25_xyz {
    width: 25%;
}

.h25_xyz {
    height: 25%;
}

.w50_xyz {
    width: 50%;
}

.h50_xyz {
    height: 50%;
}

.w75_xyz {
    width: 75%;
}

.h75_xyz {
    height: 75%;
}

.w100_xyz {
    width: 100%;
}

.h100_xyz {
    height: 100%;
}
```

### Nested selectors

Selector nesting can be easily done via array nesting. Each new nesting
level defines a child scope of the current selector. The actual CSS
selectors are computed using the cartesian product of any selectors in
the current scope and their previously defined parents:

```ts
css.css(
    ["header", "footer", { "font-size": css.rem(1.25) },
        ["nav", { background: "#000", color: "#666" },
            ["ul", { "list-style": "none" }],
            ["li", { padding: css.rem(0.5) },
                [css.withAttrib("selected"), { color: "#0cf" }]]]],
    { format: css.PRETTY }
)
```

```css
header nav ul, footer nav ul {
    list-style: none;
}

header nav li[selected], footer nav li[selected] {
    color: #0cf;
}

header nav li, footer nav li {
    padding: 0.5rem;
}

header nav, footer nav {
    background: #000;
    color: #666;
}

header, footer {
    font-size: 1.25rem;
}
```

### Pseudo-classes

Pseudo-classes follow the same pattern as other nested selectors shown above:

```ts
css.css(
    ["p", ["a", [":link", {color: "red"}], [":visited", {border: 0}]]],
    { format: css.PRETTY }
);
```

```css
p a:link {
    color:red;
}

p a:visited {
    border: 0;
}
```

### Attribute selectors

| hiccup-css selector function           | CSS       |
|----------------------------------------|-----------|
| `withAttrib(id)`                       | `[id]`    |
| `attribEq(id, x, caseSensitve?)`       | `[id=x]`  |
| `attribContains(id, x, caseSensitve?)` | `[id~=x]` |
| `attribPrefix(id, x, caseSensitve?)`   | `[id^=x]` |
| `attribSuffix(id, x, caseSensitve?)`   | `[id$=x]` |
| `attribMatches(id, x, caseSensitve?)`  | `[id*=x]` |

### Auto-prefixed properties

(Currently, only prefixed properties are supported. Auto-prefixing based
on property values is planned, but currently low priority.)

```ts
css.css(
    ["div", {"border-radius": "4px"}],
    { autoprefix: ["border-radius"], format: css.PRETTY }
);
```

```css
div {
    -moz-border-radius: 4px;
    -ms-border-radius: 4px;
    -o-border-radius: 4px;
    -webkit-border-radius: 4px;
    border-radius: 4px;
}
```

### Media queries

Media queries (optionally nested) are supported via the `at_media()` and
`at_supports()` functions, both taking an object (or string) of
conditionals and a body which will be based to `css()`.

The key-value pairs of the conditional object are interpreted as follows
and ALWAYS combined using `and`:

| Key/Value pair         | Result               |
|------------------------|----------------------|
| `"min-width": "10rem"` | `(min-width: 10rem)` |
| `print: true`          | `print`              |
| `print: false`         | `(not print)`        |
| `print: "only"`        | `only print`         |

Note: In CSS Level 3, the `not` operator can't be used to negate an individual
media feature expression, only an entire media query.

```ts
css.css(
    css.at_media(
        { screen: true, "min-width": css.rem(10) },
        [
            [".col", { width: css.percent(50)}],
            [
                css.at_media(
                    { "min-width": "20rem" },
                    [".col", { padding: css.rem(1) }]
                )
            ]
        ]
    ),
    { format: css.PRETTY }
);
```

```css
@media screen and (min-width:10rem) {

    .col {
        width: 50%;
    }

    @media (min-width:20rem) {

        .col {
            padding: 1rem;
        }

    }

}
```

### Keyframes

```ts
css.css(
    css.at_keyframes("fadein", { opacity: 0 }, { opacity: 1 }),
    { format: css.PRETTY }
);
```

```css
@keyframes fadein {

    0% {
        opacity: 0;
    }

    100% {
        opacity: 1;
    }

}
```

```ts
css.css(
    css.at_keyframes(
        "rgbfade",
        {
            0: {
                color: "red"
            },
            50: {
                color: "green"
            },
            100: {
                color: "blue"
            }
        }
    ),
    { format: css.PRETTY }
);
```

```css
@keyframes rgbfade {

    0% {
        color: red;
    }

    50% {
        color: green;
    }

    100% {
        color: blue;
    }

}
```

### Animations

Animations can be defined via the `animation()` function and define new
`@keyframes` with given `id` and related class of same name to configure
given animation `opts`. Only the `duration`option is given a default
value (250ms), all others are optional.

```ts
css(
  animation(
    "delayed-fade-in",
    { delay: "0.5s" },
    { opacity: 0 },
    { opacity: 1 }
  )
);
```

Results in:

```css
@keyframes delayed-fade-in {
    0% {
        opacity: 0;
    }
    100% {
        opacity: 1;
    }
}

.delayed-fade-in {
    animation-duration: 250ms;
    animation-name: delayed-fade-in;
    animation-delay: 0.5s;
}
```

### DOM stylesheet injection

CSS strings can be installed into the DOM `<head>` element via `injectStyleSheet()`:

```ts
css.injectStyleSheet(
    css.css([
        "body", { background: "#000", color: "#fff" }
    ])
);
```

### General function handling

**Functions are handled differently based on their position in the rule
tree.** Also see the section on [Quoted functions](#quoted-functions)
below...

#### Functions in scope head position

If a function is given as arg to `css()` or is in the head position
(first element) of a rule scope, the function is expected to produce
output directly and is called with an empty result accumulator array and
the `CSSOpts` object passed to `css()`. This form is mainly used by the
various `at_*()` functions provided (e.g. `at_media()` example above).

```ts
css.css(at_import("foo.css", "screen"));
// "@import url(foo.css) screen;"
```

The following example illustrates the head position placement, using the
`comment()` function to emit CSS comments.

```ts
css.css([
    // comments are usually omitted with the default format (css.COMPACT)
    // pass `true` as 2nd arg to force inclusion
    css.comment("generated, please don't edit", true),
    ["div", { margin: 0 }]
]);
// "/*generated, don't edit*/div{margin:0;}"
```

#### Functions in other positions

If a function is located anywhere else in a rule scope array (2nd index
or later), it will be called without arguments and the return value used
in its place. Any returned functions will be eval'd recursively in the
same manner.

### Quoted functions

One of this project's use cases is to support stylesheets defined as
JSON. Since functions cannot be used there, an optional mechanism to map
strings to functions is provided:

```
["function-name", ...args]
```

The quoted function name is looked up in a dictionary and if found,
called with all remaining elements in the same array. I.e. `["@import",
"foo.css"]` will be the same result as `at_import("foo.css")`.

**IMPORTANT:** Quoted functions are only supported in the head position
of a scope.

```ts
const styles = [
    ["@comment", " CSS from JSON"],
    ["@import", "print.css", "print"],
    ["@media",
        { "screen": true, "min-width": "10em" },
        ["div", { "font-size": "80%" }]
    ],
    ["@keyframes", "fadein", { "opacity": 0}, { "opacity": 1 }]
];

css.css(styles, { format: css.PRETTY, fns: css.QUOTED_FNS });

// btw. QUOTED_FNS is simply:
const QUOTED_FNS = {
    "@comment": comment,
    "@import": at_import,
    "@keyframes": at_keyframes,
    "@media": at_media,
    "@namespace": at_namespace,
    "@supports": at_supports,
}
```

```css
/*
    CSS from JSON
 */
@import url(print.css) print;
@media screen and (min-width:10em) {

    div {
        font-size: 80%;
    }

}

@keyframes fadein {

    0% {
        opacity: 0;
    }

    100% {
        opacity: 1;
    }

}
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-hiccup-css,
  title = "@thi.ng/hiccup-css",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/hiccup-css",
  year = 2016
}
```

## License

&copy; 2016 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

docs: update readmes (CFP survey header)

packages/hiccup-css/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->
> [!IMPORTANT]
> ‼️ Announcing the thi.ng user survey 2024 📋
>
> [Please participate in the survey here!](https://forms.gle/XacbSDEmQMPZg8197)\
> (open until end of February)
>
> **To achieve a better sample size, I'd highly appreciate if you could
> circulate the link to this survey in your own networks.**
>
> [Discussion](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/discussions/447)

# ![@thi.ng/hiccup-css](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-hiccup-css.svg?a302745b)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/hiccup-css.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/hiccup-css)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/hiccup-css.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Features](#features)
- [Use cases](#use-cases)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
  - [css()](#css)
  - [Property formatting only](#property-formatting-only)
  - [Basic selectors](#basic-selectors)
  - [Property object merging & re-use](#property-object-merging--re-use)
  - [Iterators & CSS class scoping](#iterators--css-class-scoping)
  - [Nested selectors](#nested-selectors)
  - [Pseudo-classes](#pseudo-classes)
  - [Attribute selectors](#attribute-selectors)
  - [Auto-prefixed properties](#auto-prefixed-properties)
  - [Media queries](#media-queries)
  - [Keyframes](#keyframes)
  - [Animations](#animations)
  - [DOM stylesheet injection](#dom-stylesheet-injection)
  - [General function handling](#general-function-handling)
    - [Functions in scope head position](#functions-in-scope-head-position)
    - [Functions in other positions](#functions-in-other-positions)
  - [Quoted functions](#quoted-functions)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

CSS from nested JS data structures. This is a support package for [@thi.ng/hiccup](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup).

Following a similar pattern as the
[@thi.ng/hiccup](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup)
package, this library generates CSS from plain nested arrays / data
structures, functions, iterators.

## Features

- Uses JS arrays to define selector scopes
- Uses JS object to define selector properties
  - Multiple objects per scope are combined automatically
- Supports nested selectors and computes their cartesian products
- Optional CSS class scoping
- DOM stylesheet injection
- Configurable auto-prefixed properties & vendor prefixes (disabled by
  default)
- Automatically consumes embedded iterators
- Supports embedded functions, either:
  - to define entire selector branches/scopes
  - to produce single selector items
  - to produce property values
- Quoted functions to support CSS-as-JSON definitions
- Various @-rule function wrappers:
  - `@import`
  - `@keyframes`
  - `@media` (incl. nested media queries)
  - `@namespace`
  - `@supports`
- Attribute selector functions
- Unit formatting wrappers (no conversions yet)
- Customizable formatting (2 defaults for compact & pretty printing)

## Use cases

- Same as LESS / SASS etc., but enables full use of ES6 to define style rules
- CSS framework & theme generators
- Dynamic CSS generation for components

The overall approach of using S-expressions was inspired by these
Clojure projects:

- [hiccup](https://github.com/weavejester/hiccup)
- [garden](https://github.com/noprompt/garden)

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bhiccup-css%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/hiccup-html](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup-html) - 100+ type-checked HTML5 element functions for [@thi.ng/hiccup](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup) related infrastructure
- [@thi.ng/hiccup-svg](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup-svg) - SVG element functions for [@thi.ng/hiccup](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup) & related tooling

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/hiccup-css
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/hiccup-css"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const hiccupCss = await import("@thi.ng/hiccup-css");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 2.15 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)

## Usage examples

Several projects in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                                         | Description                                         | Live demo                                                         | Source                                                                                         |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/hdom-benchmark2.png" width="240"/>             | hdom update performance benchmark w/ config options | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/hdom-benchmark2/)             | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/hdom-benchmark2)             |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/hiccup-css-image-transition.jpg" width="240"/> | Generating pure CSS image transitions               | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/hiccup-css-image-transition/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/hiccup-css-image-transition) |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/hiccup-css/)

```ts
import * as css from "@thi.ng/hiccup-css";
```

### css()

Signature: `css(rules: any, opts?: CSSOpts): string`

This is the main function exposed by this module. It accepts a JS data
structure (array, object, iterator or function) and returns a CSS
string. The optional `opts` arg is used to control formatting,
auto-prefixing and other conversion options. See
[api.ts](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/hiccup-css/src/api.ts)
for reference.

By default the generated CSS uses the `css.COMPACT` format, causing
"minimized" outputs. Pretty printing is supported via the `css.PRETTY`
format preset, see examples further below.

### Property formatting only

This feature is only intended for setting an element's `.style` attrib:

```ts
css.css({
    position: "absolute",
    border: 0,
    // function is evaluated during serialization
    top: () => css.percent((Math.random() * 100) | 0),
    // the entire properties object is passed to functions
    left: (props) => css.px(props.border),
    // arrays are joined with `,`
    // nested arrays are joined w/ ` `
    font: [["72px", "ComicSans"], "sans-serif"]
});

// "position:absolute;border:0;top:23%;left:0px;font:72px ComicSans,sans-serif;"
```

### Basic selectors

```ts
css.css(
    [
        ["html", "body", { margin: 0, padding: 0 }],
        ["div", { "max-width": css.rem(30)}],
        ["div.title", { color: "red" }]
    ],
    { format: css.PRETTY }
);
```

```css
html, body {
    margin: 0;
    padding: 0;
}

div {
    max-width: 30rem;
}

div.title {
    color: red;
}
```

### Property object merging & re-use

```ts
// re-usable property snippets
const border = { border: "1px solid black" };
const red = { color: "red" };

css.css(
    [
        ["#foo", { background: "white" }, border, red],
        ["#bar", { background: "yellow", color: "black" }, border]
    ],
    { format: css.PRETTY }
);
```

```css
#foo {
    background: white;
    border: 1px solid black;
    color: red;
}

#bar {
    background: yellow;
    color: black;
    border: 1px solid black;
}
```

### Iterators & CSS class scoping

```ts
import * as tx from "@thi.ng/transducers";

// single rule generator
// e.g. `[".w25", { width: "25%" }]`
const prop = (id, key) => (x) => [id + x, {[key]: css.percent(x)}];

css.css(
    // define iterator to produce a number of width & height css classes
    // `juxt` is used to process given percentage values in parallel and produces a tuple
    // `mapcat` is used to dissolve the tuple and produce a flat stream of generated rules
    // REMEMBER: iterators are lazy and can only be consumed once (not a problem here)
    tx.iterator(
        tx.mapcat(tx.juxt(prop(".w", "width"), prop(".h", "height"))),
        tx.range(25, 101, 25)
    ),
    // supply a scope ID (suffix) for all class names
    { format: css.PRETTY, scope: "_xyz" }
);
```

```css
.w25_xyz {
    width: 25%;
}

.h25_xyz {
    height: 25%;
}

.w50_xyz {
    width: 50%;
}

.h50_xyz {
    height: 50%;
}

.w75_xyz {
    width: 75%;
}

.h75_xyz {
    height: 75%;
}

.w100_xyz {
    width: 100%;
}

.h100_xyz {
    height: 100%;
}
```

### Nested selectors

Selector nesting can be easily done via array nesting. Each new nesting
level defines a child scope of the current selector. The actual CSS
selectors are computed using the cartesian product of any selectors in
the current scope and their previously defined parents:

```ts
css.css(
    ["header", "footer", { "font-size": css.rem(1.25) },
        ["nav", { background: "#000", color: "#666" },
            ["ul", { "list-style": "none" }],
            ["li", { padding: css.rem(0.5) },
                [css.withAttrib("selected"), { color: "#0cf" }]]]],
    { format: css.PRETTY }
)
```

```css
header nav ul, footer nav ul {
    list-style: none;
}

header nav li[selected], footer nav li[selected] {
    color: #0cf;
}

header nav li, footer nav li {
    padding: 0.5rem;
}

header nav, footer nav {
    background: #000;
    color: #666;
}

header, footer {
    font-size: 1.25rem;
}
```

### Pseudo-classes

Pseudo-classes follow the same pattern as other nested selectors shown above:

```ts
css.css(
    ["p", ["a", [":link", {color: "red"}], [":visited", {border: 0}]]],
    { format: css.PRETTY }
);
```

```css
p a:link {
    color:red;
}

p a:visited {
    border: 0;
}
```

### Attribute selectors

| hiccup-css selector function           | CSS       |
|----------------------------------------|-----------|
| `withAttrib(id)`                       | `[id]`    |
| `attribEq(id, x, caseSensitve?)`       | `[id=x]`  |
| `attribContains(id, x, caseSensitve?)` | `[id~=x]` |
| `attribPrefix(id, x, caseSensitve?)`   | `[id^=x]` |
| `attribSuffix(id, x, caseSensitve?)`   | `[id$=x]` |
| `attribMatches(id, x, caseSensitve?)`  | `[id*=x]` |

### Auto-prefixed properties

(Currently, only prefixed properties are supported. Auto-prefixing based
on property values is planned, but currently low priority.)

```ts
css.css(
    ["div", {"border-radius": "4px"}],
    { autoprefix: ["border-radius"], format: css.PRETTY }
);
```

```css
div {
    -moz-border-radius: 4px;
    -ms-border-radius: 4px;
    -o-border-radius: 4px;
    -webkit-border-radius: 4px;
    border-radius: 4px;
}
```

### Media queries

Media queries (optionally nested) are supported via the `at_media()` and
`at_supports()` functions, both taking an object (or string) of
conditionals and a body which will be based to `css()`.

The key-value pairs of the conditional object are interpreted as follows
and ALWAYS combined using `and`:

| Key/Value pair         | Result               |
|------------------------|----------------------|
| `"min-width": "10rem"` | `(min-width: 10rem)` |
| `print: true`          | `print`              |
| `print: false`         | `(not print)`        |
| `print: "only"`        | `only print`         |

Note: In CSS Level 3, the `not` operator can't be used to negate an individual
media feature expression, only an entire media query.

```ts
css.css(
    css.at_media(
        { screen: true, "min-width": css.rem(10) },
        [
            [".col", { width: css.percent(50)}],
            [
                css.at_media(
                    { "min-width": "20rem" },
                    [".col", { padding: css.rem(1) }]
                )
            ]
        ]
    ),
    { format: css.PRETTY }
);
```

```css
@media screen and (min-width:10rem) {

    .col {
        width: 50%;
    }

    @media (min-width:20rem) {

        .col {
            padding: 1rem;
        }

    }

}
```

### Keyframes

```ts
css.css(
    css.at_keyframes("fadein", { opacity: 0 }, { opacity: 1 }),
    { format: css.PRETTY }
);
```

```css
@keyframes fadein {

    0% {
        opacity: 0;
    }

    100% {
        opacity: 1;
    }

}
```

```ts
css.css(
    css.at_keyframes(
        "rgbfade",
        {
            0: {
                color: "red"
            },
            50: {
                color: "green"
            },
            100: {
                color: "blue"
            }
        }
    ),
    { format: css.PRETTY }
);
```

```css
@keyframes rgbfade {

    0% {
        color: red;
    }

    50% {
        color: green;
    }

    100% {
        color: blue;
    }

}
```

### Animations

Animations can be defined via the `animation()` function and define new
`@keyframes` with given `id` and related class of same name to configure
given animation `opts`. Only the `duration`option is given a default
value (250ms), all others are optional.

```ts
css(
  animation(
    "delayed-fade-in",
    { delay: "0.5s" },
    { opacity: 0 },
    { opacity: 1 }
  )
);
```

Results in:

```css
@keyframes delayed-fade-in {
    0% {
        opacity: 0;
    }
    100% {
        opacity: 1;
    }
}

.delayed-fade-in {
    animation-duration: 250ms;
    animation-name: delayed-fade-in;
    animation-delay: 0.5s;
}
```

### DOM stylesheet injection

CSS strings can be installed into the DOM `<head>` element via `injectStyleSheet()`:

```ts
css.injectStyleSheet(
    css.css([
        "body", { background: "#000", color: "#fff" }
    ])
);
```

### General function handling

**Functions are handled differently based on their position in the rule
tree.** Also see the section on [Quoted functions](#quoted-functions)
below...

#### Functions in scope head position

If a function is given as arg to `css()` or is in the head position
(first element) of a rule scope, the function is expected to produce
output directly and is called with an empty result accumulator array and
the `CSSOpts` object passed to `css()`. This form is mainly used by the
various `at_*()` functions provided (e.g. `at_media()` example above).

```ts
css.css(at_import("foo.css", "screen"));
// "@import url(foo.css) screen;"
```

The following example illustrates the head position placement, using the
`comment()` function to emit CSS comments.

```ts
css.css([
    // comments are usually omitted with the default format (css.COMPACT)
    // pass `true` as 2nd arg to force inclusion
    css.comment("generated, please don't edit", true),
    ["div", { margin: 0 }]
]);
// "/*generated, don't edit*/div{margin:0;}"
```

#### Functions in other positions

If a function is located anywhere else in a rule scope array (2nd index
or later), it will be called without arguments and the return value used
in its place. Any returned functions will be eval'd recursively in the
same manner.

### Quoted functions

One of this project's use cases is to support stylesheets defined as
JSON. Since functions cannot be used there, an optional mechanism to map
strings to functions is provided:

```
["function-name", ...args]
```

The quoted function name is looked up in a dictionary and if found,
called with all remaining elements in the same array. I.e. `["@import",
"foo.css"]` will be the same result as `at_import("foo.css")`.

**IMPORTANT:** Quoted functions are only supported in the head position
of a scope.

```ts
const styles = [
    ["@comment", " CSS from JSON"],
    ["@import", "print.css", "print"],
    ["@media",
        { "screen": true, "min-width": "10em" },
        ["div", { "font-size": "80%" }]
    ],
    ["@keyframes", "fadein", { "opacity": 0}, { "opacity": 1 }]
];

css.css(styles, { format: css.PRETTY, fns: css.QUOTED_FNS });

// btw. QUOTED_FNS is simply:
const QUOTED_FNS = {
    "@comment": comment,
    "@import": at_import,
    "@keyframes": at_keyframes,
    "@media": at_media,
    "@namespace": at_namespace,
    "@supports": at_supports,
}
```

```css
/*
    CSS from JSON
 */
@import url(print.css) print;
@media screen and (min-width:10em) {

    div {
        font-size: 80%;
    }

}

@keyframes fadein {

    0% {
        opacity: 0;
    }

    100% {
        opacity: 1;
    }

}
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-hiccup-css,
  title = "@thi.ng/hiccup-css",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/hiccup-css",
  year = 2016
}
```

## License

&copy; 2016 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0
