packages/checks/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/checks](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-checks.svg?8a250e50)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/checks.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/checks)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/checks.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [API](#api)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Collection of 70+ type, feature & value checks.

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bchecks%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/checks
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/checks"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const checks = await import("@thi.ng/checks");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 1.61 KB

## Dependencies

- [tslib](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/checks/)

TODO

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng) (Main author)
- [Gavin Cannizzaro](https://github.com/gavinpc-mindgrub)
- [Jay Zawrotny](https://github.com/eccentric-j)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-checks,
  title = "@thi.ng/checks",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt and others",
  note = "https://thi.ng/checks",
  year = 2016
}
```

## License

&copy; 2016 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

docs: update readmes (CFP survey header)

packages/checks/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->
> [!IMPORTANT]
> ‼️ Announcing the thi.ng user survey 2024 📋
>
> [Please participate in the survey here!](https://forms.gle/XacbSDEmQMPZg8197)\
> (open until end of February)
>
> **To achieve a better sample size, I'd highly appreciate if you could
> circulate the link to this survey in your own networks.**
>
> [Discussion](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/discussions/447)

# ![@thi.ng/checks](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-checks.svg?8a250e50)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/checks.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/checks)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/checks.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [API](#api)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Collection of 70+ type, feature & value checks.

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bchecks%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/checks
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/checks"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const checks = await import("@thi.ng/checks");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 1.61 KB

## Dependencies

- [tslib](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/checks/)

TODO

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng) (Main author)
- [Gavin Cannizzaro](https://github.com/gavinpc-mindgrub)
- [Jay Zawrotny](https://github.com/eccentric-j)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-checks,
  title = "@thi.ng/checks",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt and others",
  note = "https://thi.ng/checks",
  year = 2016
}
```

## License

&copy; 2016 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0
