packages/mime/tpl.readme.md, before:

# ${pkg.banner}

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/${pkg.name}.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/${pkg.name})
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/${pkg.name}.svg)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/thing_umbrella.svg?style=flat-square&label=twitter)](https://twitter.com/thing_umbrella)

This project is part of the
[@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo.

<!-- TOC -->

## About

${pkg.description}

All MIME type mappings based on [mime-db](https://github.com/jshttp/mime-db)
(2021-03-26). For filesize reasons only [a small selected
number](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/mime/tools/convert.ts#L7)
of vendor MIME types (aka `*/vnd.*`) are included. Most of the omitted ones are
fairly obscure anyway, so likely not problematic...

${status}

${supportPackages}

${relatedPackages}

${blogPosts}

## Installation

${pkg.install}

${pkg.size}

## Dependencies

${pkg.deps}

${examples}

## API

${docLink}

This package exposes a `MIME_TYPES` object which provides
mappings from file extensions to MIME types. For each extension one or
more MIME types are provided, with the default type always in first
position.

```ts
import { MIME_TYPES } from "@thi.ng/mime";

MIME_TYPES.mp3
// [ 'audio/mpeg', 'audio/mp3' ]

MIME_TYPES.jpg
// [ 'image/jpeg' ]

MIME_TYPES.jpeg
// [ 'image/jpeg' ]
```

To simplify lookup and support a fallback type, the package also has
`preferredType()` function:

```ts
import { preferredType } from "@thi.ng/mime";

preferredType("mp3")
// "audio/mpeg"

// unknown file extension w/ default fallback type
preferredType("foo")
// "application/octet-stream"

// unknown file extension w/ given fallback type
preferredType("foo", "text/plain")
// "text/plain"
```

Since v0.3.0 reverse lookups are possible too, using `preferredExtension()`
(also supports fallback):

```ts
preferredExtension("image/svg+xml");
// "svg"

preferredExtension("image/foo");
// "bin" (default fallback)

preferredExtension("image/foo", "dat");
// "dat" (custom fallback)
```

## Conversion from mime-db

1. Download the [latest version of mime-db's JSON
   index](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jshttp/mime-db/master/db.json) and
   save it to `[packages/mime/]tools/mime-db.json`
2. Run the following command to build an up-to-date index (assumes the umbrella
   repo has been pre-built already). Output will always be be written to
   `src/generated.ts`.

```bash
# from the thi.ng/umbrella repo root
cd packages/mime
yarn tool:convert
```

Additional configuration options are available in the `tools/convert.ts` script.

## Authors

${authors}

${pkg.cite}

## License

&copy; ${copyright} // ${license}

Commit message:

feat(mime): update to latest DB & overrides, fix #340

packages/mime/tpl.readme.md, after:

# ${pkg.banner}

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/${pkg.name}.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/${pkg.name})
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/${pkg.name}.svg)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/thing_umbrella.svg?style=flat-square&label=twitter)](https://twitter.com/thing_umbrella)

This project is part of the
[@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo.

<!-- TOC -->

## About

${pkg.description}

All MIME type mappings based on [mime-db](https://github.com/jshttp/mime-db)
(2022-04-07). For filesize reasons only [a small selected
number](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/mime/tools/convert.ts#L7)
of vendor MIME types (aka `*/vnd.*`) are included. Most of the omitted ones are
fairly obscure anyway, so likely not problematic...

Additionally, this package defines several MIME types not included in the
original DB, as well as some preference overrides.

${status}

${supportPackages}

${relatedPackages}

${blogPosts}

## Installation

${pkg.install}

${pkg.size}

## Dependencies

${pkg.deps}

${examples}

## API

${docLink}

This package exposes a `MIME_TYPES` object which provides
mappings from file extensions to MIME types. For each extension one or
more MIME types are provided, with the default type always in first
position.

```ts
import { MIME_TYPES } from "@thi.ng/mime";

MIME_TYPES.mp3
// [ 'audio/mpeg', 'audio/mp3' ]

MIME_TYPES.jpg
// [ 'image/jpeg' ]

MIME_TYPES.jpeg
// [ 'image/jpeg' ]
```

To simplify lookup and support a fallback type, the package also has
`preferredType()` function:

```ts
import { preferredType } from "@thi.ng/mime";

preferredType("mp3")
// "audio/mpeg"

// unknown file extension w/ default fallback type
preferredType("foo")
// "application/octet-stream"

// unknown file extension w/ given fallback type
preferredType("foo", "text/plain")
// "text/plain"
```

Since v0.3.0 reverse lookups are possible too, using `preferredExtension()`
(also supports fallback):

```ts
preferredExtension("image/svg+xml");
// "svg"

preferredExtension("image/foo");
// "bin" (default fallback)

preferredExtension("image/foo", "dat");
// "dat" (custom fallback)
```

## Conversion from mime-db

1. Download the [latest version of mime-db's JSON
   index](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jshttp/mime-db/master/db.json) and
   save it to `[packages/mime/]tools/mime-db.json`
2. Run the following command to build an up-to-date index (assumes the umbrella
   repo has been pre-built already). Output will always be be written to
   `src/generated.ts`.

```bash
# from the thi.ng/umbrella repo root
cd packages/mime
yarn tool:convert
```

Additional configuration options are available in the `tools/convert.ts` script.

## Authors

${authors}

${pkg.cite}

## License

&copy; ${copyright} // ${license}
