packages/text-canvas/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/text-canvas](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-text-canvas.svg?770105b3)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/text-canvas.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/text-canvas)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/text-canvas.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
  - [Canvas creation](#canvas-creation)
  - [Format identifiers](#format-identifiers)
    - [Colors](#colors)
    - [Variations](#variations)
    - [Combined formats](#combined-formats)
  - [String conversion format presets](#string-conversion-format-presets)
  - [Stroke styles](#stroke-styles)
  - [Clipping](#clipping)
  - [Drawing functions](#drawing-functions)
  - [Image functions](#image-functions)
  - [Text functions](#text-functions)
  - [Bars & bar charts](#bars--bar-charts)
  - [Tables](#tables)
  - [3D wireframe cube example](#3d-wireframe-cube-example)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Text based canvas, drawing, tables with arbitrary formatting (incl. ANSI/HTML).

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Btext-canvas%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/text-format](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/text-format) - Customizable color text formatting with presets for ANSI & HTML

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/text-canvas
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/text-canvas"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const textCanvas = await import("@thi.ng/text-canvas");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 5.56 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/arrays](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/arrays)
- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/geom-clip-line](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/geom-clip-line)
- [@thi.ng/math](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/math)
- [@thi.ng/strings](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/strings)
- [@thi.ng/text-format](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/text-format)
- [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)

## Usage examples

Several projects in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                               | Description                                                       | Live demo                                               | Source                                                                               |
|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/ascii-raymarch.jpg" width="240"/>    | ASCII art raymarching with thi.ng/shader-ast & thi.ng/text-canvas | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/ascii-raymarch/)    | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/ascii-raymarch)    |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/text-canvas.png" width="240"/>       | 3D wireframe textmode demo                                        | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/text-canvas/)       | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/text-canvas)       |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/text-canvas-image.png" width="240"/> | Textmode image warping w/ 16bit color output                      | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/text-canvas-image/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/text-canvas-image) |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/text-canvas/)

### Canvas creation

```ts
const c = canvas(width, height, format?, style?);
```

### Format identifiers

The text canvas stores all characters in a `Uint32Array` with the lower 16 bits
used for the UTF-16 code and the upper 16 bits for **abitrary** formatting data.
The package utilizes [format identifier constants and formatters from the
@thi.ng/text-format
package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/text-format/),
which are tailored for the included ANSI & HTML formatters, but users are free to
choose use any other system (but then will also need to implement a custom
string formatter impl).

The default format ID layout used by text canvas is as shown:

![format bit layout](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/format-layout.png)

Most drawing functions accept an optional `format` arg, but a default
format can also be set via `setFormat(canvas, formatID)`.

The format IDs defined in @thi.ng/text-format are only compatible with these
formatters (also supplied by that package):

- `FMT_ANSI16`
- `FMT_HTML_INLINE_CSS`
- `FMT_HTML_TACHYONS`

**All constants and other formatters are also discussed in detail in the
[@thi.ng/text-format
readme](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/text-format/README.md).**

#### Colors

These color IDs MUST be prefixed with either `FG_` (foreground) or `BG_`
(background):

- `BLACK`
- `RED`
- `GREEN`
- `YELLOW`
- `BLUE`
- `MAGENTA`
- `CYAN`
- `GRAY`
- `WHITE`
- `LIGHT_GRAY`
- `LIGHT_RED`
- `LIGHT_GREEN`
- `LIGHT_YELLOW`
- `LIGHT_BLUE`
- `LIGHT_MAGENTA`
- `LIGHT_CYAN`

#### Variations

- `BOLD`
- `DIM`
- `UNDERLINE`

#### Combined formats

Format IDs can be combined via the binary OR operator (`|`), e.g.:

```ts
setFormat(canvas, FG_BLACK | BG_LIGHT_CYAN | BOLD | UNDERLINE);
```

### String conversion format presets

Canvas-to-string conversion is completely customizable via the [`StringFormat`
interface](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/text-format/interfaces/StringFormat.html).
Currently the following presets are supplied (in the
[@thi.ng/text-format](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/text-format)
package):

- `FMT_ANSI16` - translate built-in format IDs to 4-bit ANSI escape sequences
- `FMT_ANSI256` - uses all 16 format bits for fg & bg colors (ANSI esc sequences)
- `FMT_ANSI565` - uses all 16 format bits for RGB565 fg colors (ANSI esc sequences)
- `FMT_ANSI_RAW` - verbatim use of format IDs to ANSI sequences
- `FMT_HTML_INLINE_CSS` - HTML `<span>` elements with inline CSS
- `FMT_HTML_TACHYONS` - HTML `<span>` elements with [Tachyons
  CSS](http://tachyons.io/) class names
- `FMT_HTML565` - HTML `<span>` elements with RGB565 color coding
- `FMT_NONE` - dummy formatter outputting plain text only (all format
  information discarded, e.g. for [`NO_COLOR`](https://no-color.org/) support)

```ts
// Terminal
console.log(formatCanvas(canvas, FMT_ANSI16));
// or
console.log(formatCanvas(canvas, FMT_ANSI256));

// Browser
const el = document.createElement("pre");
el.innerHTML = formatCanvas(canvas, FMT_HTML_TACHYONS);
```

### Stroke styles

Built-in style presets:

- `STYLE_ASCII`
- `STYLE_THIN`
- `STYLE_THIN_ROUNDED`
- `STYLE_DASHED`
- `STYLE_DASHED_ROUNDED`
- `STYLE_DOUBLE`

Functions:

- `beginStyle(canvas, style)`
- `endStyle(canvas)`

### Clipping

All drawing operations are constrained to the currently active clipping rect (by
default full canvas). The canvas maintains a stack of such clipping regions,
each newly pushed one being intersected with the previous top-of-stack rect:

- `beginClip(canvas, x, y, w, h)` - push new clip rect
- `endClip(canvas)` - restore previous clip rect

```text
┌──────────────────┐
│ A                │
│         ╔════════╗─────────┐
│         ║        ║         │
│         ║ A & B  ║         │
│         ║        ║         │
└─────────╚════════╝         │
          │                B │
          └──────────────────┘
```

### Drawing functions

- `line`
- `hline`
- `vline`
- `circle`

- `clear`
- `fillRect`
- `strokeRect`

### Image functions

- `blit`
- `resize`
- `extract`
- `scrollV`
- `image` / `imageRaw` / `imageCanvas565` / `imageString565`
- `imageBraille` / `imageCanvasBraille` / `imageStringBraille`

```ts
import { RGB565 } from "@thi.ng/pixel";
import { read } from "@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm";

// resize non-proportionally (to compensate
// for character aspect ratio, YMMV)
const img = read(readFileSync("chroma-rings.ppm"))
  .resize(32, 32 / 2.25)
  .as(RGB565)

// requires an ANSI 24bit compatible terminal
console.log(imageString565(img));
```

![example image output in NodeJS REPL](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/chroma-rings.png)

### Text functions

- `textLine`
- `textLines`
- `textColumn` (word wrapped)
- `textBox` (word wrapped)

### Bars & bar charts

The following are string builders only, draw result via text functions:

- `barHorizontal`
- `barVertical`
- `barChartHStr`
- `barChartVStr`

### Tables

Tables support individual column width, automatic (or user defined) row
heights, cell padding, as well as global and per-cell formats and the
following border style options:

| Border style     | Result                                                                                                          |
|------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Border.ALL`     | ![table](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/table-border-all.png)     |
| `Border.NONE`    | ![table](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/table-border-none.png)    |
| `Border.H`       | ![table](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/table-border-h.png)       |
| `Border.V`       | ![table](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/table-border-v.png)       |
| `Border.FRAME`   | ![table](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/table-border-frame.png)   |
| `Border.FRAME_H` | ![table](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/table-border-frame-h.png) |
| `Border.FRAME_V` | ![table](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/table-border-frame-v.png) |

Table cell contents will be word-wrapped. By default, individual words longer
than the configured cell width will be truncated, but can be forced to wrap by
enabling the `hard` option (see example below).

```ts
import { repeatedly } from "@thi.ng/transducers";
import * as tc from "@thi.ng/text-canvas";
import * as tf from "@thi.ng/text-format";

// generate 20 random values
const data = repeatedly(() => Math.random(), 20)
// format as bar chart string
const chart = tc.barChartHStr(4, data, 0, 1);

// create text canvas
const canvas = new tc.Canvas(64, 20);

// create table
tc.table(
    canvas,
    0,
    0,
    {
        // column defs
        cols: [{ width: 4 }, { width: 20 }, { width: 8 }],
        // default cell format
        format: tf.FG_BLACK | tf.BG_LIGHT_CYAN,
        // default format for header cells (1st row)
        formatHead: tf.FG_RED | tf.BG_LIGHT_CYAN | tf.BOLD | tf.UNDERLINE,
        // border line style
        style: tc.STYLE_DASHED_ROUNDED,
        // border mode
        border: tc.Border.ALL,
        // internal cell padding [h,v]
        padding: [1, 0],
        // hard word wrap
        hard: true,
    },
    // table contents (row major)
    // each cell either a string or RawCell object
    [
        ["ID", "Main", "Comment"],
        [
            "0001",
            { body: chart, format: tf.FG_BLUE | tf.BG_LIGHT_CYAN },
            "This is a test!"
        ],
        ["0002", "Random data plot", "Word wrapped content"],
        ["0003", { body: "More details...", height: 4 }, ""]
    ]
);

// output as ANSI formatted string
console.log(tc.formatCanvas(canvas, tf.FMT_ANSI16));
```

For even more detailed control, tables can also be pre-initialized prior
to creation of the canvas via
[`initTable()`](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/text-canvas/src/table.ts#L29)
and then drawn via
[`drawTable()`](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/text-canvas/src/table.ts#L97).
The `initTable` function returns an object also containing the computed
table size (`width`, `height` keys) which can then be used to create a
canvas with the required size...

For convenience, the `tableCanvas()` function can be used to combine
these steps and to create an auto-sized canvas with the rendered table
as content.

### 3D wireframe cube example

```text
       ┌───┐
  ┌──────────────────────┐
  │ @thi.ng/text-canvas  │
  │ wireframe cube       │++++++++++
  │                      │          +++++++++++    ┌───┐
  │ x: 0.42              │                     ++++│ 6 │
  │ y: 0.30              │        ┌───┐ ++++++++   └───┘
  └──────────────────────┘++++++++│ 7 │+           +
           +         └───┘        └───┘            +
            +          +           +              +
            +          +           +              +
             +         +           +             +
             +         +          +              +
             +          +         +              +
              +         +         +             +
              +         +         +             +
               +        +        ┌───┐         +
               +         +      +│ 3 │         +
                +       ┌───┐+++ └───┘        +
                +       │ 0 │       +         +
                 +      └───┘        +        +
                 +       +            +      +
                 +       +             +     +
                  +     +               +   +
                  +     +                +  +
                   +    +                 ┌───┐
                   +    +                 │ 2 │
                    +   +               ++└───┘
                    +   +            +++
                     + +           ++
                     + +        +++
                      ++      ++
````

Code for this above example output (CLI version):

```ts
import * as geom from "@thi.ng/geom";
import * as mat from "@thi.ng/matrices";
import * as tc from "@thi.ng/text-canvas";
import * as tf from "@thi.ng/text-format";

const W = 64;
const H = 32;

// create text canvas
const canvas = new tc.Canvas(W, H, tf.BG_BLACK, tf.STYLE_THIN);

// cube corner vertices
const cube = geom.vertices(geom.center(geom.aabb(1))!);

// edge list (vertex indices)
const edges = [
    [0, 1], [1, 2], [2, 3], [3, 0], [4, 5], [5, 6],
    [6, 7], [7, 4], [0, 4], [1, 5], [2, 6], [3, 7]
];

// animated parameters
let rotx = 0;
let roty = 0;

// 3D transformation matrices
const view = mat.lookAt([], [0, 0, 1], [0, 0, 0], [0, 1, 0]);
const proj = mat.perspective([], 90, W / H, 0.1, 10);
const viewp = mat.viewport([], 0, W, H, 0);

setInterval(() => {
    tc.clear(canvas, true);
    // model rotation matrix
    const model = mat.concat(
        [],
        mat.rotationX44([], rotx += 0.01),
        mat.rotationY44([], roty += 0.03)
    );
    // combined model-view-projection matrix
    const mvp = mat.concat([], proj, view, model);
    // draw cube instances
    // project 3D points to 2D viewport (canvas coords)
    const pts = cube.map((p) => mat.project3([], mvp, viewp, p)!);
    // draw cube edges
    for (let e of edges) {
        const a = pts[e[0]];
        const b = pts[e[1]];
        tc.line(canvas, a[0], a[1], b[0], b[1], "+", tf.FG_WHITE | tf.BG_RED);
    }
    // draw vertex labels
    canvas.format = tf.FG_WHITE | tf.BG_BLUE;
    for (let i = 0; i < 8; i++) {
        const p = pts[i];
        tc.textBox(canvas, p[0] - 1, p[1] - 1, 5, 3, ` ${i} `);
    }
    tc.textBox(
        canvas,
        2, 1, 24, -1,
        `@thi.ng/text-canvas wireframe cube\n\nx: ${rotx.toFixed(2)}\ny: ${roty.toFixed(2)}`,
        {
            format: tf.FG_BLACK | tf.BG_LIGHT_CYAN,
            padding: [1, 0]
        }
    );
    // draw canvas
    console.clear();
    // output as ANSI formatted string
    console.log(tc.formatCanvas(canvas, tf.FMT_ANSI16));
    // output as plain text
    // console.log(tc.formatCanvas(canvas));
}, 15);
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-text-canvas,
  title = "@thi.ng/text-canvas",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/text-canvas",
  year = 2020
}
```

## License

&copy; 2020 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

docs: update readmes (CFP survey header)

packages/text-canvas/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->
> [!IMPORTANT]
> ‼️ Announcing the thi.ng user survey 2024 📋
>
> [Please participate in the survey here!](https://forms.gle/XacbSDEmQMPZg8197)\
> (open until end of February)
>
> **To achieve a better sample size, I'd highly appreciate if you could
> circulate the link to this survey in your own networks.**
>
> [Discussion](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/discussions/447)

# ![@thi.ng/text-canvas](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-text-canvas.svg?770105b3)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/text-canvas.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/text-canvas)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/text-canvas.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
  - [Canvas creation](#canvas-creation)
  - [Format identifiers](#format-identifiers)
    - [Colors](#colors)
    - [Variations](#variations)
    - [Combined formats](#combined-formats)
  - [String conversion format presets](#string-conversion-format-presets)
  - [Stroke styles](#stroke-styles)
  - [Clipping](#clipping)
  - [Drawing functions](#drawing-functions)
  - [Image functions](#image-functions)
  - [Text functions](#text-functions)
  - [Bars & bar charts](#bars--bar-charts)
  - [Tables](#tables)
  - [3D wireframe cube example](#3d-wireframe-cube-example)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Text based canvas, drawing, tables with arbitrary formatting (incl. ANSI/HTML).

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Btext-canvas%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/text-format](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/text-format) - Customizable color text formatting with presets for ANSI & HTML

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/text-canvas
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/text-canvas"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const textCanvas = await import("@thi.ng/text-canvas");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 5.56 KB

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/arrays](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/arrays)
- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)
- [@thi.ng/geom-clip-line](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/geom-clip-line)
- [@thi.ng/math](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/math)
- [@thi.ng/strings](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/strings)
- [@thi.ng/text-format](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/text-format)
- [@thi.ng/transducers](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/transducers)

## Usage examples

Several projects in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                               | Description                                                       | Live demo                                               | Source                                                                               |
|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/ascii-raymarch.jpg" width="240"/>    | ASCII art raymarching with thi.ng/shader-ast & thi.ng/text-canvas | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/ascii-raymarch/)    | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/ascii-raymarch)    |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/text-canvas.png" width="240"/>       | 3D wireframe textmode demo                                        | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/text-canvas/)       | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/text-canvas)       |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/text-canvas-image.png" width="240"/> | Textmode image warping w/ 16bit color output                      | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/text-canvas-image/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/text-canvas-image) |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/text-canvas/)

### Canvas creation

```ts
const c = canvas(width, height, format?, style?);
```

### Format identifiers

The text canvas stores all characters in a `Uint32Array` with the lower 16 bits
used for the UTF-16 code and the upper 16 bits for **abitrary** formatting data.
The package utilizes [format identifier constants and formatters from the
@thi.ng/text-format
package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/text-format/),
which are tailored for the included ANSI & HTML formatters, but users are free to
choose use any other system (but then will also need to implement a custom
string formatter impl).

The default format ID layout used by text canvas is as shown:

![format bit layout](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/format-layout.png)

Most drawing functions accept an optional `format` arg, but a default
format can also be set via `setFormat(canvas, formatID)`.

The format IDs defined in @thi.ng/text-format are only compatible with these
formatters (also supplied by that package):

- `FMT_ANSI16`
- `FMT_HTML_INLINE_CSS`
- `FMT_HTML_TACHYONS`

**All constants and other formatters are also discussed in detail in the
[@thi.ng/text-format
readme](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/text-format/README.md).**

#### Colors

These color IDs MUST be prefixed with either `FG_` (foreground) or `BG_`
(background):

- `BLACK`
- `RED`
- `GREEN`
- `YELLOW`
- `BLUE`
- `MAGENTA`
- `CYAN`
- `GRAY`
- `WHITE`
- `LIGHT_GRAY`
- `LIGHT_RED`
- `LIGHT_GREEN`
- `LIGHT_YELLOW`
- `LIGHT_BLUE`
- `LIGHT_MAGENTA`
- `LIGHT_CYAN`

#### Variations

- `BOLD`
- `DIM`
- `UNDERLINE`

#### Combined formats

Format IDs can be combined via the binary OR operator (`|`), e.g.:

```ts
setFormat(canvas, FG_BLACK | BG_LIGHT_CYAN | BOLD | UNDERLINE);
```

### String conversion format presets

Canvas-to-string conversion is completely customizable via the [`StringFormat`
interface](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/text-format/interfaces/StringFormat.html).
Currently the following presets are supplied (in the
[@thi.ng/text-format](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/text-format)
package):

- `FMT_ANSI16` - translate built-in format IDs to 4-bit ANSI escape sequences
- `FMT_ANSI256` - uses all 16 format bits for fg & bg colors (ANSI esc sequences)
- `FMT_ANSI565` - uses all 16 format bits for RGB565 fg colors (ANSI esc sequences)
- `FMT_ANSI_RAW` - verbatim use of format IDs to ANSI sequences
- `FMT_HTML_INLINE_CSS` - HTML `<span>` elements with inline CSS
- `FMT_HTML_TACHYONS` - HTML `<span>` elements with [Tachyons
  CSS](http://tachyons.io/) class names
- `FMT_HTML565` - HTML `<span>` elements with RGB565 color coding
- `FMT_NONE` - dummy formatter outputting plain text only (all format
  information discarded, e.g. for [`NO_COLOR`](https://no-color.org/) support)

```ts
// Terminal
console.log(formatCanvas(canvas, FMT_ANSI16));
// or
console.log(formatCanvas(canvas, FMT_ANSI256));

// Browser
const el = document.createElement("pre");
el.innerHTML = formatCanvas(canvas, FMT_HTML_TACHYONS);
```

### Stroke styles

Built-in style presets:

- `STYLE_ASCII`
- `STYLE_THIN`
- `STYLE_THIN_ROUNDED`
- `STYLE_DASHED`
- `STYLE_DASHED_ROUNDED`
- `STYLE_DOUBLE`

Functions:

- `beginStyle(canvas, style)`
- `endStyle(canvas)`

### Clipping

All drawing operations are constrained to the currently active clipping rect (by
default full canvas). The canvas maintains a stack of such clipping regions,
each newly pushed one being intersected with the previous top-of-stack rect:

- `beginClip(canvas, x, y, w, h)` - push new clip rect
- `endClip(canvas)` - restore previous clip rect

```text
┌──────────────────┐
│ A                │
│         ╔════════╗─────────┐
│         ║        ║         │
│         ║ A & B  ║         │
│         ║        ║         │
└─────────╚════════╝         │
          │                B │
          └──────────────────┘
```

### Drawing functions

- `line`
- `hline`
- `vline`
- `circle`

- `clear`
- `fillRect`
- `strokeRect`

### Image functions

- `blit`
- `resize`
- `extract`
- `scrollV`
- `image` / `imageRaw` / `imageCanvas565` / `imageString565`
- `imageBraille` / `imageCanvasBraille` / `imageStringBraille`

```ts
import { RGB565 } from "@thi.ng/pixel";
import { read } from "@thi.ng/pixel-io-netpbm";

// resize non-proportionally (to compensate
// for character aspect ratio, YMMV)
const img = read(readFileSync("chroma-rings.ppm"))
  .resize(32, 32 / 2.25)
  .as(RGB565)

// requires an ANSI 24bit compatible terminal
console.log(imageString565(img));
```

![example image output in NodeJS REPL](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/chroma-rings.png)

### Text functions

- `textLine`
- `textLines`
- `textColumn` (word wrapped)
- `textBox` (word wrapped)

### Bars & bar charts

The following are string builders only, draw result via text functions:

- `barHorizontal`
- `barVertical`
- `barChartHStr`
- `barChartVStr`

### Tables

Tables support individual column width, automatic (or user defined) row
heights, cell padding, as well as global and per-cell formats and the
following border style options:

| Border style     | Result                                                                                                          |
|------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Border.ALL`     | ![table](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/table-border-all.png)     |
| `Border.NONE`    | ![table](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/table-border-none.png)    |
| `Border.H`       | ![table](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/table-border-h.png)       |
| `Border.V`       | ![table](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/table-border-v.png)       |
| `Border.FRAME`   | ![table](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/table-border-frame.png)   |
| `Border.FRAME_H` | ![table](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/table-border-frame-h.png) |
| `Border.FRAME_V` | ![table](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/text-canvas/table-border-frame-v.png) |

Table cell contents will be word-wrapped. By default, individual words longer
than the configured cell width will be truncated, but can be forced to wrap by
enabling the `hard` option (see example below).

```ts
import { repeatedly } from "@thi.ng/transducers";
import * as tc from "@thi.ng/text-canvas";
import * as tf from "@thi.ng/text-format";

// generate 20 random values
const data = repeatedly(() => Math.random(), 20)
// format as bar chart string
const chart = tc.barChartHStr(4, data, 0, 1);

// create text canvas
const canvas = new tc.Canvas(64, 20);

// create table
tc.table(
    canvas,
    0,
    0,
    {
        // column defs
        cols: [{ width: 4 }, { width: 20 }, { width: 8 }],
        // default cell format
        format: tf.FG_BLACK | tf.BG_LIGHT_CYAN,
        // default format for header cells (1st row)
        formatHead: tf.FG_RED | tf.BG_LIGHT_CYAN | tf.BOLD | tf.UNDERLINE,
        // border line style
        style: tc.STYLE_DASHED_ROUNDED,
        // border mode
        border: tc.Border.ALL,
        // internal cell padding [h,v]
        padding: [1, 0],
        // hard word wrap
        hard: true,
    },
    // table contents (row major)
    // each cell either a string or RawCell object
    [
        ["ID", "Main", "Comment"],
        [
            "0001",
            { body: chart, format: tf.FG_BLUE | tf.BG_LIGHT_CYAN },
            "This is a test!"
        ],
        ["0002", "Random data plot", "Word wrapped content"],
        ["0003", { body: "More details...", height: 4 }, ""]
    ]
);

// output as ANSI formatted string
console.log(tc.formatCanvas(canvas, tf.FMT_ANSI16));
```

For even more detailed control, tables can also be pre-initialized prior
to creation of the canvas via
[`initTable()`](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/text-canvas/src/table.ts#L29)
and then drawn via
[`drawTable()`](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/text-canvas/src/table.ts#L97).
The `initTable` function returns an object also containing the computed
table size (`width`, `height` keys) which can then be used to create a
canvas with the required size...

For convenience, the `tableCanvas()` function can be used to combine
these steps and to create an auto-sized canvas with the rendered table
as content.

### 3D wireframe cube example

```text
       ┌───┐
  ┌──────────────────────┐
  │ @thi.ng/text-canvas  │
  │ wireframe cube       │++++++++++
  │                      │          +++++++++++    ┌───┐
  │ x: 0.42              │                     ++++│ 6 │
  │ y: 0.30              │        ┌───┐ ++++++++   └───┘
  └──────────────────────┘++++++++│ 7 │+           +
           +         └───┘        └───┘            +
            +          +           +              +
            +          +           +              +
             +         +           +             +
             +         +          +              +
             +          +         +              +
              +         +         +             +
              +         +         +             +
               +        +        ┌───┐         +
               +         +      +│ 3 │         +
                +       ┌───┐+++ └───┘        +
                +       │ 0 │       +         +
                 +      └───┘        +        +
                 +       +            +      +
                 +       +             +     +
                  +     +               +   +
                  +     +                +  +
                   +    +                 ┌───┐
                   +    +                 │ 2 │
                    +   +               ++└───┘
                    +   +            +++
                     + +           ++
                     + +        +++
                      ++      ++
````

Code for this above example output (CLI version):

```ts
import * as geom from "@thi.ng/geom";
import * as mat from "@thi.ng/matrices";
import * as tc from "@thi.ng/text-canvas";
import * as tf from "@thi.ng/text-format";

const W = 64;
const H = 32;

// create text canvas
const canvas = new tc.Canvas(W, H, tf.BG_BLACK, tf.STYLE_THIN);

// cube corner vertices
const cube = geom.vertices(geom.center(geom.aabb(1))!);

// edge list (vertex indices)
const edges = [
    [0, 1], [1, 2], [2, 3], [3, 0], [4, 5], [5, 6],
    [6, 7], [7, 4], [0, 4], [1, 5], [2, 6], [3, 7]
];

// animated parameters
let rotx = 0;
let roty = 0;

// 3D transformation matrices
const view = mat.lookAt([], [0, 0, 1], [0, 0, 0], [0, 1, 0]);
const proj = mat.perspective([], 90, W / H, 0.1, 10);
const viewp = mat.viewport([], 0, W, H, 0);

setInterval(() => {
    tc.clear(canvas, true);
    // model rotation matrix
    const model = mat.concat(
        [],
        mat.rotationX44([], rotx += 0.01),
        mat.rotationY44([], roty += 0.03)
    );
    // combined model-view-projection matrix
    const mvp = mat.concat([], proj, view, model);
    // draw cube instances
    // project 3D points to 2D viewport (canvas coords)
    const pts = cube.map((p) => mat.project3([], mvp, viewp, p)!);
    // draw cube edges
    for (let e of edges) {
        const a = pts[e[0]];
        const b = pts[e[1]];
        tc.line(canvas, a[0], a[1], b[0], b[1], "+", tf.FG_WHITE | tf.BG_RED);
    }
    // draw vertex labels
    canvas.format = tf.FG_WHITE | tf.BG_BLUE;
    for (let i = 0; i < 8; i++) {
        const p = pts[i];
        tc.textBox(canvas, p[0] - 1, p[1] - 1, 5, 3, ` ${i} `);
    }
    tc.textBox(
        canvas,
        2, 1, 24, -1,
        `@thi.ng/text-canvas wireframe cube\n\nx: ${rotx.toFixed(2)}\ny: ${roty.toFixed(2)}`,
        {
            format: tf.FG_BLACK | tf.BG_LIGHT_CYAN,
            padding: [1, 0]
        }
    );
    // draw canvas
    console.clear();
    // output as ANSI formatted string
    console.log(tc.formatCanvas(canvas, tf.FMT_ANSI16));
    // output as plain text
    // console.log(tc.formatCanvas(canvas));
}, 15);
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-text-canvas,
  title = "@thi.ng/text-canvas",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/text-canvas",
  year = 2020
}
```

## License

&copy; 2020 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0
