packages/sexpr/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/sexpr](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-sexpr.svg?40c7df44)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/sexpr.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/sexpr)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/sexpr.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
  - [Tokenize only (iterator)](#tokenize-only-iterator)
  - [AST generation](#ast-generation)
  - [Interpreter](#interpreter)
  - [Custom syntax](#custom-syntax)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Basic, but configurable and extensible
[S-Expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S-expression) tokenizer,
parser, AST builder and runtime / interpreter skeleton for custom,
sandboxed DSL implementations.

The following default syntax rules are used:

- **whitespace**: space, tab, newline, comma
- **expression delimiters**: `(`, `)`
- **numbers**: any float notation valid in JS, hex ints prefixed w/ `0x`
- **string delimiters**: `"`
- **line comments**: `;`

Everything else is parsed as is, i.e. as symbol.

## Status

**ALPHA** - bleeding edge / work-in-progress

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bsexpr%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/parse](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/parse) - Purely functional parser combinators & AST generation for generic inputs

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/sexpr
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/sexpr"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const sexpr = await import("@thi.ng/sexpr");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 867 bytes

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/defmulti](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/defmulti)

## Usage examples

Several projects in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                                 | Description                                               | Live demo                                                 | Source                                                                                 |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/lispy-repl.png" width="240"/>          | Browser REPL for a Lispy S-expression based mini language | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/lispy-repl/)          | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/lispy-repl)          |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/rstream-spreadsheet.png" width="240"/> | rstream based spreadsheet w/ S-expression formula DSL     | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/rstream-spreadsheet/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/rstream-spreadsheet) |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/sexpr/)

### Tokenize only (iterator)

The `tokenize` function returns an iterator of tokens incl. location
details. Any whitespace is skipped and whitespace characters are
configurable.

```ts
[...tokenize(`(* (+ 3 5) 10)`)];
// [
//   { value: '(', line: 0, col: 0 },
//   { value: '*', line: 0, col: 1 },
//   { value: '(', line: 0, col: 3 },
//   { value: '+', line: 0, col: 4 },
//   { value: '3', line: 0, col: 6 },
//   { value: '5', line: 0, col: 8 },
//   { value: ')', line: 0, col: 9 },
//   { value: '10', line: 0, col: 11 },
//   { value: ')', line: 0, col: 13 }
// ]
```

### AST generation

The `parse` function takes a source string or iterable of tokens and
parses it into an AST.

```ts
parse(tokenize(`(* (+ 3 5) 10)`));
// or directly from string
parse(`(* (+ 3 5) 10)`);
```

```json
{
  "type": "root",
  "children": [
    {
      "type": "expr",
      "value": "(",
      "children": [
        {
          "type": "sym",
          "value": "*"
        },
        {
          "type": "expr",
          "value": "(",
          "children": [
            {
              "type": "sym",
              "value": "+"
            },
            {
              "type": "num",
              "value": 3
            },
            {
              "type": "num",
              "value": 5
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "type": "num",
          "value": 10
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Interpreter

The below code example implements a small Lisp-like language, complete with
interpreter and can be used an the basis for an easily extensible (and more
optimized) setup. Even this barebones implementation allows for defining of
symbols & functions, lexical scoping, FFI via providing externally defined
functions via the global environment, variadic math ops...

```ts tangle:export/readme.ts
import type { Fn, Fn2 } from "@thi.ng/api";
import { DEFAULT, defmulti, type MultiFn2 } from "@thi.ng/defmulti";
import {
    parse, runtime,
    type ASTNode, type Expression, type Implementations, type Sym
} from "@thi.ng/sexpr";

// evaluator: parses given source string into an abstract syntax tree (AST) and
// then recursively executes all resulting AST nodes using the
// `interpret()` function defined below. Returns the result of the last node.
const $eval = (src: string, env: any = {}) =>
    parse(src).children.reduce((_, x) => interpret(x, env), <any>undefined);

// build runtime (interpreter) w/ impls for all AST node types. the generics are
// the types of the custom environment and the result type(s) of expressions.
// this is a multiple-dispatch function (see thi.ng/defmulti) which chooses
// implementations based on the AST node type
const interpret = runtime<Implementations<any, any>, any, any>({
    // for expression nodes (aka function calls) delegate to builtins
    // (implementations are defined further below)
    expr: (x, env) => builtins(x.children, env),

    // lookup symbol's value (via its name) in environment
    sym: (x, env) => env[x.value],

    // strings and numbers evaluate verbatim
    str: (x) => x.value,
    num: (x) => x.value,
});

// another multiple-dispatch function for DSL builtins. we will call this
// function for each S-expression node and it will delegate to the actual impl
// based on the expression's first item (i.e. a symbol/fn name)
const builtins: MultiFn2<ASTNode[], any, any> = defmulti((x) => x[0].value);

// helper function which interprets all given AST nodes and returns an array of
// their result values
const evalArgs = (nodes: ASTNode[], env: any) =>
    nodes.map((a) => interpret(a, env));

// helper function for basic math ops variable arity.
// with 2+ args: (+ 1 2 3 4) => 10
// and special cases for 1 arg only, i.e.
// `(+ 2)` => 0 + 2 => 2
// `(- 2)` => 0 - 2 => -2
// `(* 2)` => 1 * 2 => 2
// `(/ 2)` => 1 / 2 => 0.5
const mathOp =
    (fn: Fn2<number, number, number>, fn1: Fn<number, number>) =>
    ([_, ...args]: ASTNode[], env: any) => {
        const first = interpret(args[0], env);
        return args.length > 1
            ? // use a reduction for 2+ args
              evalArgs(args.slice(1), env).reduce((acc, x) => fn(acc, x), first)
            : // apply special case unary function
              fn1(first);
    };

// implementations of built-in core functions
builtins.addAll({
    "+": mathOp((acc, x) => acc + x, (x) => x),
    "*": mathOp((acc, x) => acc * x, (x) => x),
    "-": mathOp((acc, x) => acc - x, (x) => -x),
    "/": mathOp((acc, x) => acc / x, (x) => 1 / x),

    // count returns the length of first argument (presumably a string)
    // (e.g. `(count "abc")` => 3)
    count: ([_, arg], env) => interpret(arg, env).length,

    // concatenates all args into a space-separated string and prints it
    // returns undefined
    print: ([_, ...args], env) => console.log(evalArgs(args, env).join(" ")),

    // defines as new symbol with given value, stores it in the environment and
    // then returns the value, e.g. `(def magic 42)`
    def: ([_, name, value], env) =>
        (env[(<Sym>name).value] = interpret(value, env)),

    // defines a new function with given name, args and body, stores it in the
    // environment and returns it, e.g. `(defn madd (a b c) (+ (* a b) c))`
    defn: ([_, name, args, ...body], env) => {
        // create new vararg function in env
        return (env[(<Sym>name).value] = (...xs: any[]) => {
            // create new local env with arguments bound to named function args
            // (i.e. simple lexical scoping)
            const $env = (<Expression>args).children.reduce(
                (acc, a, i) => ((acc[(<Sym>a).value] = xs[i]), acc),
                { ...env }
            );
            // execute function body with local env, return result of last expr
            return body.reduce((_, x) => interpret(x, $env), <any>undefined);
        });
    },

    // add default/fallback implementation to allow calling functions defined in
    // the environment (either externally or via `defn`)
    [DEFAULT]: ([x, ...args]: ASTNode[], env: any) => {
        const name = (<Sym>x).value;
        const f = env[name];
        if (!f) throw new Error(`missing impl for: ${name}`);
        return f.apply(null, evalArgs(args, env));
    },
});

// testing our toy Lisp DSL...

// define symbol and use in another expression
$eval(`(def chars "abc") (print (count chars) "characters")`);
// 3 characters

// define function (multiply-add) and test
$eval(`(defn madd (a b c) (+ (* a b) c)) (print (madd 3 5 (* 5 2)))`);
// 25

// pre-define function via environment, then use in DSL
$eval(`(print (join " | " (+ 1 2) (* 3 4) (- 5 6) (/ 7 8)))`, {
    join: (sep: string, ...xs: any[]) => xs.join(sep),
});
// 3 | 12 | -1 | 0.875

// testing lexical scoping...
// function `foo` has `a` as local (with precedence over global) binding,
// but function `bar` correctly uses binding of the outer env, even if
// called from `foo`...
$eval(`
(def a 1)
(defn foo (a) (print "foo" a "bar" (bar)))
(defn bar () (+ a 1))

(print "root #1" a)
(foo 100)
(print "root #2" a)
`);
// root #1 1
// foo 100 bar 2
// root #2 1
```

See
[test/](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/sexpr/test/)
for a more in-depth version of this example...

### Custom syntax

```ts tangle:export/readme2.ts
import { parse } from "@thi.ng/sexpr";

// define syntax overrides (keep default whitespace rules)
const syntax = {
    scopes: [["<", ">"], ["{", "}"]],
    string: "'"
};

console.log(JSON.stringify(parse(`<nest { a '2' b 3 }>`, syntax), null, 2));
```

Resulting JSON output:

```json
{
  "type": "root",
  "children": [
    {
      "type": "expr",
      "value": "<",
      "children": [
        {
          "type": "sym",
          "value": "nest"
        },
        {
          "type": "expr",
          "value": "{",
          "children": [
            {
              "type": "sym",
              "value": "a"
            },
            {
              "type": "str",
              "value": "2"
            },
            {
              "type": "sym",
              "value": "b"
            },
            {
              "type": "num",
              "value": 3
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-sexpr,
  title = "@thi.ng/sexpr",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/sexpr",
  year = 2019
}
```

## License

&copy; 2019 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

docs: update readmes (CFP survey header)

packages/sexpr/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->
> [!IMPORTANT]
> ‼️ Announcing the thi.ng user survey 2024 📋
>
> [Please participate in the survey here!](https://forms.gle/XacbSDEmQMPZg8197)\
> (open until end of February)
>
> **To achieve a better sample size, I'd highly appreciate if you could
> circulate the link to this survey in your own networks.**
>
> [Discussion](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/discussions/447)

# ![@thi.ng/sexpr](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-sexpr.svg?40c7df44)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/sexpr.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/sexpr)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/sexpr.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Usage examples](#usage-examples)
- [API](#api)
  - [Tokenize only (iterator)](#tokenize-only-iterator)
  - [AST generation](#ast-generation)
  - [Interpreter](#interpreter)
  - [Custom syntax](#custom-syntax)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Basic, but configurable and extensible
[S-Expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S-expression) tokenizer,
parser, AST builder and runtime / interpreter skeleton for custom,
sandboxed DSL implementations.

The following default syntax rules are used:

- **whitespace**: space, tab, newline, comma
- **expression delimiters**: `(`, `)`
- **numbers**: any float notation valid in JS, hex ints prefixed w/ `0x`
- **string delimiters**: `"`
- **line comments**: `;`

Everything else is parsed as is, i.e. as symbol.

## Status

**ALPHA** - bleeding edge / work-in-progress

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Bsexpr%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/parse](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/parse) - Purely functional parser combinators & AST generation for generic inputs

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/sexpr
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/sexpr"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const sexpr = await import("@thi.ng/sexpr");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 867 bytes

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/checks](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/checks)
- [@thi.ng/defmulti](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/defmulti)

## Usage examples

Several projects in this repo's
[/examples](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples)
directory are using this package:

| Screenshot                                                                                                                 | Description                                               | Live demo                                                 | Source                                                                                 |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/lispy-repl.png" width="240"/>          | Browser REPL for a Lispy S-expression based mini language | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/lispy-repl/)          | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/lispy-repl)          |
| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/examples/rstream-spreadsheet.png" width="240"/> | rstream based spreadsheet w/ S-expression formula DSL     | [Demo](https://demo.thi.ng/umbrella/rstream-spreadsheet/) | [Source](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/examples/rstream-spreadsheet) |

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/sexpr/)

### Tokenize only (iterator)

The `tokenize` function returns an iterator of tokens incl. location
details. Any whitespace is skipped and whitespace characters are
configurable.

```ts
[...tokenize(`(* (+ 3 5) 10)`)];
// [
//   { value: '(', line: 0, col: 0 },
//   { value: '*', line: 0, col: 1 },
//   { value: '(', line: 0, col: 3 },
//   { value: '+', line: 0, col: 4 },
//   { value: '3', line: 0, col: 6 },
//   { value: '5', line: 0, col: 8 },
//   { value: ')', line: 0, col: 9 },
//   { value: '10', line: 0, col: 11 },
//   { value: ')', line: 0, col: 13 }
// ]
```

### AST generation

The `parse` function takes a source string or iterable of tokens and
parses it into an AST.

```ts
parse(tokenize(`(* (+ 3 5) 10)`));
// or directly from string
parse(`(* (+ 3 5) 10)`);
```

```json
{
  "type": "root",
  "children": [
    {
      "type": "expr",
      "value": "(",
      "children": [
        {
          "type": "sym",
          "value": "*"
        },
        {
          "type": "expr",
          "value": "(",
          "children": [
            {
              "type": "sym",
              "value": "+"
            },
            {
              "type": "num",
              "value": 3
            },
            {
              "type": "num",
              "value": 5
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "type": "num",
          "value": 10
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Interpreter

The below code example implements a small Lisp-like language, complete with
interpreter and can be used an the basis for an easily extensible (and more
optimized) setup. Even this barebones implementation allows for defining of
symbols & functions, lexical scoping, FFI via providing externally defined
functions via the global environment, variadic math ops...

```ts tangle:export/readme.ts
import type { Fn, Fn2 } from "@thi.ng/api";
import { DEFAULT, defmulti, type MultiFn2 } from "@thi.ng/defmulti";
import {
    parse, runtime,
    type ASTNode, type Expression, type Implementations, type Sym
} from "@thi.ng/sexpr";

// evaluator: parses given source string into an abstract syntax tree (AST) and
// then recursively executes all resulting AST nodes using the
// `interpret()` function defined below. Returns the result of the last node.
const $eval = (src: string, env: any = {}) =>
    parse(src).children.reduce((_, x) => interpret(x, env), <any>undefined);

// build runtime (interpreter) w/ impls for all AST node types. the generics are
// the types of the custom environment and the result type(s) of expressions.
// this is a multiple-dispatch function (see thi.ng/defmulti) which chooses
// implementations based on the AST node type
const interpret = runtime<Implementations<any, any>, any, any>({
    // for expression nodes (aka function calls) delegate to builtins
    // (implementations are defined further below)
    expr: (x, env) => builtins(x.children, env),

    // lookup symbol's value (via its name) in environment
    sym: (x, env) => env[x.value],

    // strings and numbers evaluate verbatim
    str: (x) => x.value,
    num: (x) => x.value,
});

// another multiple-dispatch function for DSL builtins. we will call this
// function for each S-expression node and it will delegate to the actual impl
// based on the expression's first item (i.e. a symbol/fn name)
const builtins: MultiFn2<ASTNode[], any, any> = defmulti((x) => x[0].value);

// helper function which interprets all given AST nodes and returns an array of
// their result values
const evalArgs = (nodes: ASTNode[], env: any) =>
    nodes.map((a) => interpret(a, env));

// helper function for basic math ops variable arity.
// with 2+ args: (+ 1 2 3 4) => 10
// and special cases for 1 arg only, i.e.
// `(+ 2)` => 0 + 2 => 2
// `(- 2)` => 0 - 2 => -2
// `(* 2)` => 1 * 2 => 2
// `(/ 2)` => 1 / 2 => 0.5
const mathOp =
    (fn: Fn2<number, number, number>, fn1: Fn<number, number>) =>
    ([_, ...args]: ASTNode[], env: any) => {
        const first = interpret(args[0], env);
        return args.length > 1
            ? // use a reduction for 2+ args
              evalArgs(args.slice(1), env).reduce((acc, x) => fn(acc, x), first)
            : // apply special case unary function
              fn1(first);
    };

// implementations of built-in core functions
builtins.addAll({
    "+": mathOp((acc, x) => acc + x, (x) => x),
    "*": mathOp((acc, x) => acc * x, (x) => x),
    "-": mathOp((acc, x) => acc - x, (x) => -x),
    "/": mathOp((acc, x) => acc / x, (x) => 1 / x),

    // count returns the length of first argument (presumably a string)
    // (e.g. `(count "abc")` => 3)
    count: ([_, arg], env) => interpret(arg, env).length,

    // concatenates all args into a space-separated string and prints it
    // returns undefined
    print: ([_, ...args], env) => console.log(evalArgs(args, env).join(" ")),

    // defines as new symbol with given value, stores it in the environment and
    // then returns the value, e.g. `(def magic 42)`
    def: ([_, name, value], env) =>
        (env[(<Sym>name).value] = interpret(value, env)),

    // defines a new function with given name, args and body, stores it in the
    // environment and returns it, e.g. `(defn madd (a b c) (+ (* a b) c))`
    defn: ([_, name, args, ...body], env) => {
        // create new vararg function in env
        return (env[(<Sym>name).value] = (...xs: any[]) => {
            // create new local env with arguments bound to named function args
            // (i.e. simple lexical scoping)
            const $env = (<Expression>args).children.reduce(
                (acc, a, i) => ((acc[(<Sym>a).value] = xs[i]), acc),
                { ...env }
            );
            // execute function body with local env, return result of last expr
            return body.reduce((_, x) => interpret(x, $env), <any>undefined);
        });
    },

    // add default/fallback implementation to allow calling functions defined in
    // the environment (either externally or via `defn`)
    [DEFAULT]: ([x, ...args]: ASTNode[], env: any) => {
        const name = (<Sym>x).value;
        const f = env[name];
        if (!f) throw new Error(`missing impl for: ${name}`);
        return f.apply(null, evalArgs(args, env));
    },
});

// testing our toy Lisp DSL...

// define symbol and use in another expression
$eval(`(def chars "abc") (print (count chars) "characters")`);
// 3 characters

// define function (multiply-add) and test
$eval(`(defn madd (a b c) (+ (* a b) c)) (print (madd 3 5 (* 5 2)))`);
// 25

// pre-define function via environment, then use in DSL
$eval(`(print (join " | " (+ 1 2) (* 3 4) (- 5 6) (/ 7 8)))`, {
    join: (sep: string, ...xs: any[]) => xs.join(sep),
});
// 3 | 12 | -1 | 0.875

// testing lexical scoping...
// function `foo` has `a` as local (with precedence over global) binding,
// but function `bar` correctly uses binding of the outer env, even if
// called from `foo`...
$eval(`
(def a 1)
(defn foo (a) (print "foo" a "bar" (bar)))
(defn bar () (+ a 1))

(print "root #1" a)
(foo 100)
(print "root #2" a)
`);
// root #1 1
// foo 100 bar 2
// root #2 1
```

See
[test/](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/sexpr/test/)
for a more in-depth version of this example...

### Custom syntax

```ts tangle:export/readme2.ts
import { parse } from "@thi.ng/sexpr";

// define syntax overrides (keep default whitespace rules)
const syntax = {
    scopes: [["<", ">"], ["{", "}"]],
    string: "'"
};

console.log(JSON.stringify(parse(`<nest { a '2' b 3 }>`, syntax), null, 2));
```

Resulting JSON output:

```json
{
  "type": "root",
  "children": [
    {
      "type": "expr",
      "value": "<",
      "children": [
        {
          "type": "sym",
          "value": "nest"
        },
        {
          "type": "expr",
          "value": "{",
          "children": [
            {
              "type": "sym",
              "value": "a"
            },
            {
              "type": "str",
              "value": "2"
            },
            {
              "type": "sym",
              "value": "b"
            },
            {
              "type": "num",
              "value": 3
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-sexpr,
  title = "@thi.ng/sexpr",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/sexpr",
  year = 2019
}
```

## License

&copy; 2019 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0
