packages/random-fxhash/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/random-fxhash](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-random-fxhash.svg?ae3fa3f5)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/random-fxhash.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/random-fxhash)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/random-fxhash.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
  - [Further functionality](#further-functionality)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [API](#api)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

[@thi.ng/random](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/random) compatible wrapper & utilities for fxhash's PRNG.

[fxhash](https://fxhash.xyz) is a platform for publishing generative art
projects on the Tezos blockchain, where each individual project edition is
driven by an unique transaction hash, incl. the platform's provided PRNG which
is meant to be used by each project to ensure deterministic behavior and
reproducibility. The fxhash PRNG is an implementation of the [SFC32 (Simple Fast
Counter)
algorithm](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/random/src/sfc32.ts),
which is also provided by the
[@thi.ng/random](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/random)
parent package.

This support package provides a singleton implementation (`RND`) of that PRNG,
pre-seeded with the global `$fx.hash` (formerly `fxhash`) var injected by the
platform SDK. Of course pre-seeding with a transaction hash is only possible
when using this package in the browser and in conjunction with a [fxhash HTML
template](https://www.fxhash.xyz/doc/artist/guide-publish-generative-token#3-ways-to-start-a-project).
If the global `$fx.hash` or `fxhash` var is _not_ defined, the `RND` instance
will be seeded with a default seed (but can also be re-seeded later on). This
also allows this package to be used outside the browser env, where the fxhash
provided code snippet isn't available...

Additionally, the package also provides various wrappers for other commonly used
utilities from the @thi.ng/random package. These are wrapped in such a way that
they're using the `RND` singleton by default (but optionally accept any other
[`IRandom`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/random/interfaces/IRandom.html)
implementation as additional arg). See examples below.

### Further functionality

**All** thi.ng/umbrella packages dealing with randomness in any shape or form
are supporting the above mentioned `IRandom` interface. That means the `RND`
instance can be passed to any of the functions/classes to provide more advanced
functionality, e.g.:

- [@thi.ng/arrays](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/arrays): Array shuffling
- [@thi.ng/color](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/color): Generate procedural/stochastic colors/themes/ranges, analog colors
- [@thi.ng/colored-noise](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/colored-noise): Various 1D noise generators
- [@thi.ng/gp](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/gp): Genetic programming toolkit
- [@thi.ng/k-means](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/k-means): nD k-Means clustering
- [@thi.ng/lowdisc](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/lowdisc): nD low-discrepancy sequence generators/iterators
- [@thi.ng/lsys](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/lsys): Highly customizable L-System interpreter
- [@thi.ng/poisson](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/poisson): nD poisson disc sampling
- [@thi.ng/vectors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/vectors): 800+ vector functions, incl. random nD vector creation

## Status

**ALPHA** - bleeding edge / work-in-progress

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Brandom-fxhash%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/base-n](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/base-n) - Arbitrary base-n conversions w/ presets for base8/16/32/36/58/62/64/83/85, support for bigints and encoding/decoding of byte arrays

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/random-fxhash
```

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const randomFxhash = await import("@thi.ng/random-fxhash");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 483 bytes

**IMPORTANT**: When using this package (or any other packages from this
monorepo) for [fxhash](https://fxhash.xyz), you MUST use a bundler (e.g. Vite,
Parcel or Webpack), since the platform does not support ES module imports from
external sources/CDNs. A related boilerplate project template will be published
soon. Follow [@thing_umbrella](https://twitter.com/thing_umbrella) on Twitter
for updates...

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/base-n](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/base-n)
- [@thi.ng/random](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/random)

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/random-fxhash/)

TODO

```ts
import {
    RND,
    probability,
    pick, pickKey,
    weighted, weightedKey,
    seedFromHash,
} from "@thi.ng/random-fxhash";

const themes = {
    bw: ["#000", "#fff"],
    gray: ["#666", "#ccc"],
    red: ["#f00", "#000"],
    yellow: ["#ff0", "#00f"],
};

// (uniformly) pick a random value
const thickness = pick([0.5, 1, 2, 3]);

// (uniformly) pick random key from `themes`
const themeID = pickKey(themes);
// "gray"

// pick a key from given object of weights
// i.e. "bw" is 8x more likely to be picked than "yellow"
const themeID = weightedKey({ bw: 8, gray: 4, red: 2, yellow: 1 })
// "bw"

// same, but using individual arrays of choices/weights
const themeID = weighted(["bw", "gray", "red", "yellow"], [8, 4, 2, 1]);

// 20% chance for slow mode
const isSlow = probability(0.2);

// the IRandom interface also provides these methods:

// return a 32bit unsigned int
RND.int()

// return a float in [0..n) interval (default n = 1)
RND.float(n)

// return a float in [-n..n) interval (default n = 1)
RND.norm(n)

// return a float in [min..max) interval
RND.minmax(0.5, 1)

// return a int in [min..max) interval
RND.minmaxInt(0, 100)

// (re)seed from transaction hash
RND.seed(seedFromHash("ookorwLedQrCTPesBcUPrR2oRbPHgsAxe9xgCSNq4XAuZSaCvaB"));

// or reseed from uint's
RND.seed([1, 2, 3, 4]);

```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-random-fxhash,
  title = "@thi.ng/random-fxhash",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/random-fxhash",
  year = 2022
}
```

## License

&copy; 2022 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

docs: update readmes (CFP survey header)

packages/random-fxhash/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->
> [!IMPORTANT]
> ‼️ Announcing the thi.ng user survey 2024 📋
>
> [Please participate in the survey here!](https://forms.gle/XacbSDEmQMPZg8197)\
> (open until end of February)
>
> **To achieve a better sample size, I'd highly appreciate if you could
> circulate the link to this survey in your own networks.**
>
> [Discussion](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/discussions/447)

# ![@thi.ng/random-fxhash](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-random-fxhash.svg?ae3fa3f5)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/random-fxhash.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/random-fxhash)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/random-fxhash.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
  - [Further functionality](#further-functionality)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [API](#api)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

[@thi.ng/random](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/random) compatible wrapper & utilities for fxhash's PRNG.

[fxhash](https://fxhash.xyz) is a platform for publishing generative art
projects on the Tezos blockchain, where each individual project edition is
driven by an unique transaction hash, incl. the platform's provided PRNG which
is meant to be used by each project to ensure deterministic behavior and
reproducibility. The fxhash PRNG is an implementation of the [SFC32 (Simple Fast
Counter)
algorithm](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/packages/random/src/sfc32.ts),
which is also provided by the
[@thi.ng/random](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/random)
parent package.

This support package provides a singleton implementation (`RND`) of that PRNG,
pre-seeded with the global `$fx.hash` (formerly `fxhash`) var injected by the
platform SDK. Of course pre-seeding with a transaction hash is only possible
when using this package in the browser and in conjunction with a [fxhash HTML
template](https://www.fxhash.xyz/doc/artist/guide-publish-generative-token#3-ways-to-start-a-project).
If the global `$fx.hash` or `fxhash` var is _not_ defined, the `RND` instance
will be seeded with a default seed (but can also be re-seeded later on). This
also allows this package to be used outside the browser env, where the fxhash
provided code snippet isn't available...

Additionally, the package also provides various wrappers for other commonly used
utilities from the @thi.ng/random package. These are wrapped in such a way that
they're using the `RND` singleton by default (but optionally accept any other
[`IRandom`](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/random/interfaces/IRandom.html)
implementation as additional arg). See examples below.

### Further functionality

**All** thi.ng/umbrella packages dealing with randomness in any shape or form
are supporting the above mentioned `IRandom` interface. That means the `RND`
instance can be passed to any of the functions/classes to provide more advanced
functionality, e.g.:

- [@thi.ng/arrays](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/arrays): Array shuffling
- [@thi.ng/color](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/color): Generate procedural/stochastic colors/themes/ranges, analog colors
- [@thi.ng/colored-noise](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/colored-noise): Various 1D noise generators
- [@thi.ng/gp](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/gp): Genetic programming toolkit
- [@thi.ng/k-means](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/k-means): nD k-Means clustering
- [@thi.ng/lowdisc](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/lowdisc): nD low-discrepancy sequence generators/iterators
- [@thi.ng/lsys](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/lsys): Highly customizable L-System interpreter
- [@thi.ng/poisson](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/poisson): nD poisson disc sampling
- [@thi.ng/vectors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/vectors): 800+ vector functions, incl. random nD vector creation

## Status

**ALPHA** - bleeding edge / work-in-progress

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Brandom-fxhash%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/base-n](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/base-n) - Arbitrary base-n conversions w/ presets for base8/16/32/36/58/62/64/83/85, support for bigints and encoding/decoding of byte arrays

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/random-fxhash
```

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const randomFxhash = await import("@thi.ng/random-fxhash");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 483 bytes

**IMPORTANT**: When using this package (or any other packages from this
monorepo) for [fxhash](https://fxhash.xyz), you MUST use a bundler (e.g. Vite,
Parcel or Webpack), since the platform does not support ES module imports from
external sources/CDNs. A related boilerplate project template will be published
soon. Follow [@thing_umbrella](https://twitter.com/thing_umbrella) on Twitter
for updates...

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/api](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/api)
- [@thi.ng/base-n](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/base-n)
- [@thi.ng/random](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/random)

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/random-fxhash/)

TODO

```ts
import {
    RND,
    probability,
    pick, pickKey,
    weighted, weightedKey,
    seedFromHash,
} from "@thi.ng/random-fxhash";

const themes = {
    bw: ["#000", "#fff"],
    gray: ["#666", "#ccc"],
    red: ["#f00", "#000"],
    yellow: ["#ff0", "#00f"],
};

// (uniformly) pick a random value
const thickness = pick([0.5, 1, 2, 3]);

// (uniformly) pick random key from `themes`
const themeID = pickKey(themes);
// "gray"

// pick a key from given object of weights
// i.e. "bw" is 8x more likely to be picked than "yellow"
const themeID = weightedKey({ bw: 8, gray: 4, red: 2, yellow: 1 })
// "bw"

// same, but using individual arrays of choices/weights
const themeID = weighted(["bw", "gray", "red", "yellow"], [8, 4, 2, 1]);

// 20% chance for slow mode
const isSlow = probability(0.2);

// the IRandom interface also provides these methods:

// return a 32bit unsigned int
RND.int()

// return a float in [0..n) interval (default n = 1)
RND.float(n)

// return a float in [-n..n) interval (default n = 1)
RND.norm(n)

// return a float in [min..max) interval
RND.minmax(0.5, 1)

// return a int in [min..max) interval
RND.minmaxInt(0, 100)

// (re)seed from transaction hash
RND.seed(seedFromHash("ookorwLedQrCTPesBcUPrR2oRbPHgsAxe9xgCSNq4XAuZSaCvaB"));

// or reseed from uint's
RND.seed([1, 2, 3, 4]);

```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-random-fxhash,
  title = "@thi.ng/random-fxhash",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/random-fxhash",
  year = 2022
}
```

## License

&copy; 2022 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0
