packages/color/tpl.readme.md, before:

# ${pkg.banner}

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/${pkg.name}.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/${pkg.name})
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/${pkg.name}.svg)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/thing_umbrella.svg?style=flat-square&label=twitter)](https://twitter.com/thing_umbrella)

This project is part of the
[@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo.

For the Clojure version, please visit: [thi.ng/color-clj](https://thi.ng/color-clj)

<!-- TOC -->

## About

${pkg.description}

### Color spaces / modes

Fast color space conversions (any direction) between:

- CSS (string, hex3/hex4/hex6/hex8, rgba(), hsla(), named colors)
- HCYA (float4)
- HSIA (float4)
- HSLA (float4)
- HSVA (float4)
- Int32 (uint32, `0xaarrggbb`)
- RGBA (float4)
- XYZA (float4, aka CIE 1931)
- YCbCr (float4)

Apart from `CSS` and `Int32` colors, all others can be stored as plain
arrays, typed array or custom array-like types of (mostly) normalized
values (`[0,1]` interval). Where applicable, the hue too is stored in
that range, NOT in degrees.

Apart from conversions, most other operations provided by this package
are currently only supporting RGBA colors. These can also be converted
to / from sRGB (i.e. linear vs gamma corrected).

#### Class wrappers

The package provides lightweight class wrappers for each color mode /
space. These wrappers act similarly to the `Vec2/3/4` wrappers in
[@thi.ng/vectors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/vectors),
support striding (for mapped memory views), named channel accessor
aliases (in addition to array indexing) and are fully compatible with
all functions (and act as syntax sugar for generic conversion
functions). Wrapper factory functions are provided for convenience.

### Color theme generation

The package provides several methods for procedural & declarative color theme
generations. The latter relies on the concept of HSV color ranges, which can be
sampled directly and/or mixed with a base color to produce randomized
variations. Furthermore, multiple such ranges can be combined into a weighted
set to define probabilistic color themes.

```ts
// single random color drawn from the "bright" color range preset
colorFromRange(RANGES.bright);
// [ 0.7302125322518669, 0.8519945301256682, 0.8134374983367859, 1 ]

// single random color based on given HSV base color and preset
colorFromRange(RANGES.warm, [0.33, 1, 1])
// [ 0.3065587375218628, 0.8651353734302525, 0.748781892650323, 1 ]

// infinite iterator of colors sampled from the preset
// (see table below)
const colors = colorsFromRange(RANGES.bright);
colors.next();
// {
//   value: [ 0.006959075656347791, 0.8760165887192115, 0.912149937028727, 1 ],
//   done: false
// }

// 10 cool reds, w/ 10% hue variance
[...colorsFromRange(RANGES.cool, [0, 0.8, 1], { num: 10, variance: 0.1 })]

// generate colors based on given (weighted) textual description(s)
// here using named CSS colors, but could also be HSV tuples
[...colorsFromTheme(
    [["warm", "goldenrod"], ["cool", "springgreen", 0.1]],
    { num: 100, variance: 0.05 }
)]

// theme parts can also be given in the format used internally
// note: base colors are always in HSV
// all keys are optional (range, base, weight),
// but at least `range` or `base` must be given...
[...colorsFromTheme(
    [
        { range: "warm", base: "goldenrod" },
        { range: RANGES.cool, base: [0, 1, 0.5], weight: 0.1 }
    ],
    { num: 100, variance: 0.05 }
)]
```

| ID        | 100 colors drawn from color range preset only, sorted by hue                                                       |
|-----------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `bright`  | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-bright.svg)  |
| `cool`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-cool.svg)    |
| `dark`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-dark.svg)    |
| `fresh`   | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-fresh.svg)   |
| `hard`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-hard.svg)    |
| `intense` | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-intense.svg) |
| `light`   | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-light.svg)   |
| `neutral` | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-neutral.svg) |
| `soft`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-soft.svg)    |
| `warm`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-warm.svg)    |
| `weak`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-weak.svg)    |

| ID        | 100 colors, single base color w/ color range preset, sorted by hue                                                 |
|-----------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `bright`  | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-bright.svg)  |
| `cool`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-cool.svg)    |
| `dark`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-dark.svg)    |
| `fresh`   | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-fresh.svg)   |
| `hard`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-hard.svg)    |
| `intense` | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-intense.svg) |
| `light`   | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-light.svg)   |
| `neutral` | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-neutral.svg) |
| `soft`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-soft.svg)    |
| `warm`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-warm.svg)    |
| `weak`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-weak.svg)    |

| ID        | 100 colors, 2 base colors w/ color range preset, sorted by brightness                                            |
|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `bright`  | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-bright.svg)  |
| `cool`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-cool.svg)    |
| `dark`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-dark.svg)    |
| `fresh`   | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-fresh.svg)   |
| `hard`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-hard.svg)    |
| `intense` | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-intense.svg) |
| `light`   | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-light.svg)   |
| `neutral` | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-neutral.svg) |
| `soft`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-soft.svg)    |
| `warm`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-warm.svg)    |
| `weak`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-weak.svg)    |

Full example:

```ts
import { colorsFromTheme, hsva, swatchesH } from "@thi.ng/color";
import { serialize } from "@thi.ng/hiccup";
import { svg } from "@thi.ng/hiccup-svg";
import { writeFileSync } from "fs";

// color theme definition using:
// color range preset names, CSS colors and weights
const theme: ColorThemePartTuple[] = [
    ["cool", "goldenrod"],
    ["fresh", "hotpink", 0.1],
    ["light", "springgreen", 0.1],
];

// generate 200 HSV colors based on above description
const colors = [...colorsFromTheme(theme, { num: 200, variance: 0.05 })];

// create SVG doc of color swatches (hiccup format)
// (convert colors to RGB for smaller file size)
const doc = svg(
    { width: 1000, height: 50, convert: true },
    swatchesH(colors.map((x) => hsvaRgba([], x)), 5, 50)
);

// serialize to SVG file
writeFileSync("export/swatches-ex01.svg", serialize(doc));
```

![example result color swatches](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-ex01.svg)

### RGBA transformations

RGBA [color matrix
transformations](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/color/src/transform.ts),
including parametric preset transforms:

- brightness
- contrast
- exposure
- saturation (luminance aware)
- hue rotation
- color temperature (warm / cold)
- sepia (w/ fade amount)
- tint (green / magenta)
- grayscale (luminance aware)
- subtraction/inversion (also available as non-matrix op)
- luminance to alpha

Transformation matrices can be combined using matrix multiplication /
concatenation (see `concat()`) for more efficient application.

### RGBA Porter-Duff compositing

This feature has been moved to the separate
[@thi.ng/porter-duff](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/porter-duff)
package.

### Cosine gradients

- [Original article](http://www.iquilezles.org/www/articles/palettes/palettes.htm)
- [Gradient generator](http://dev.thi.ng/gradients/)

The following presets are bundled (in [`cosine-gradients.ts`](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/color/src/cosine-gradients.ts)):

| Preview                                                                                                                                       | Gradient ID             |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|
| ![gradient: blue-cyan](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-blue-cyan.png)                         | `blue-cyan`             |
| ![gradient: blue-magenta-orange](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-blue-magenta-orange.png)     | `blue-magenta-orange`   |
| ![gradient: blue-white-red](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-blue-white-red.png)               | `blue-white-red`        |
| ![gradient: cyan-magenta](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-cyan-magenta.png)                   | `cyan-magenta`          |
| ![gradient: green-blue-orange](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-green-blue-orange.png)         | `green-blue-orange`     |
| ![gradient: green-cyan](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-green-cyan.png)                       | `green-cyan`            |
| ![gradient: green-magenta](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-green-magenta.png)                 | `green-magenta`         |
| ![gradient: green-red](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-green-red.png)                         | `green-red`             |
| ![gradient: heat1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-heat1.png)                                 | `heat1`                 |
| ![gradient: magenta-green](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-magenta-green.png)                 | `magenta-green`         |
| ![gradient: orange-blue](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-orange-blue.png)                     | `orange-blue`           |
| ![gradient: orange-magenta-blue](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-orange-magenta-blue.png)     | `orange-magenta-blue`   |
| ![gradient: purple-orange-cyan](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-purple-orange-cyan.png)       | `purple-orange-cyan`    |
| ![gradient: rainbow1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-rainbow1.png)                           | `rainbow1`              |
| ![gradient: rainbow2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-rainbow2.png)                           | `rainbow2`              |
| ![gradient: rainbow3](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-rainbow3.png)                           | `rainbow3`              |
| ![gradient: rainbow4](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-rainbow4.png)                           | `rainbow4`              |
| ![gradient: red-blue](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-red-blue.png)                           | `red-blue`              |
| ![gradient: yellow-green-blue](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-yellow-green-blue.png)         | `yellow-green-blue`     |
| ![gradient: yellow-magenta-cyan](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-yellow-magenta-cyan.png)     | `yellow-magenta-cyan`   |
| ![gradient: yellow-purple-magenta](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-yellow-purple-magenta.png) | `yellow-purple-magenta` |
| ![gradient: yellow-red](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-yellow-red.png)                       | `yellow-red`            |

### Two-color gradients

The `cosineCoeffs()` function can be used to compute the cosine gradient
coefficients between 2 start/end colors:

```ts
// compute gradient coeffs between red / green
cosineGradient(10, cosineCoeffs([1,0,0,1], [0,1,0,1])).map(rgbaCss)
// #ff0000
// #f70800
// #e11e00
// #bf4000
// #966900
// #699600
// #40bf00
// #1ee100
// #08f700
// #00ff00
```

### Multi-stop gradients

The `multiCosineGradient()` function returns an iterator of raw RGBA
colors based on given gradient stops. This iterator computes a cosine
gradient between each color stop and yields a sequence of RGBA values.

```ts
col.multiCosineGradient(
    // num colors to produce
    10,
    // gradient stops (normalized positions, only RGBA colors supported)
    [0.1, col.RED], [0.5, col.GREEN], [0.9, col.BLUE]
)
// convert to CSS
.map(col.rgbaCss)

// [
//   "#ff0000",
//   "#ff0000",
//   "#da2500",
//   "#807f00",
//   "#25da00",
//   "#00ff00",
//   "#00da25",
//   "#00807f",
//   "#0025da",
//   "#0000ff",
//   "#0000ff",
// ]
```

${status}

${supportPackages}

${relatedPackages}

${blogPosts}

## Installation

${pkg.install}

${pkg.size}

## Dependencies

${pkg.deps}

${examples}

## API

${docLink}

```ts
import * as col from "@thi.ng/color";

// route #1: asXXX() converters: string -> CSS -> ARGB (int) -> RGBA
const a = col.asRGBA(col.css("#3cf"));
// [0.2, 0.8, 1, 1]

// route #2: parseCSS(): string -> RGBA
const b = col.parseCss("hsla(30,100%,50%,0.75)");
// [ 1, 0.5, 0, 0.75 ]

// route #3: convert() multi-method: CSS -> RGBA -> HSVA
// (see convert.ts)
const c = col.convert("rgb(0,255,255)", "hsv", "css");
// [ 0.4999999722222268, 0.9999990000010001, 1, 1 ]

// route #4: direct conversion RGBA -> HSLA -> CSS
// first arg is output color (same calling convention as @thi.ng/vectors)
// (use `null` to mutate the input color)
col.hslaCss(col.rgbaHsla([], [1, 0.5, 0.5, 1]))
// "hsl(0.00,100.00%,75.00%)"

col.luminance(col.css("white"))
col.luminance(0xffffff, "int")
// 1

// apply color matrix (RGBA only)
col.transform([], col.saturation(1.25), a)
// [ 0.07835000000000002, 0.82835, 1, 1 ]

// combine matrix transformations
filter = col.concat(
    col.saturation(0.5), // 50% saturation
    col.brightness(0.1), // +10% brightness
);

col.transform([], filter, col.RED);
// [ 0.7065, 0.2065, 0.2065, 1 ]
```

## Authors

${authors}

${pkg.cite}

## License

&copy; ${copyright} // ${license}

Commit message:

docs(color): update readme (color sorting)

packages/color/tpl.readme.md, after:

# ${pkg.banner}

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/${pkg.name}.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/${pkg.name})
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/${pkg.name}.svg)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/thing_umbrella.svg?style=flat-square&label=twitter)](https://twitter.com/thing_umbrella)

This project is part of the
[@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo.

For the Clojure version, please visit: [thi.ng/color-clj](https://thi.ng/color-clj)

<!-- TOC -->

## About

${pkg.description}

### Color spaces / modes

Fast color space conversions (any direction) between:

- CSS (string, hex3/hex4/hex6/hex8, rgba(), hsla(), named colors)
- HCYA (float4)
- HSIA (float4)
- HSLA (float4)
- HSVA (float4)
- Int32 (uint32, `0xaarrggbb`)
- RGBA (float4)
- XYZA (float4, aka CIE 1931)
- YCbCr (float4)

Apart from `CSS` and `Int32` colors, all others can be stored as plain
arrays, typed array or custom array-like types of (mostly) normalized
values (`[0,1]` interval). Where applicable, the hue too is stored in
that range, NOT in degrees.

Apart from conversions, most other operations provided by this package
are currently only supporting RGBA colors. These can also be converted
to / from sRGB (i.e. linear vs gamma corrected).

#### Class wrappers

The package provides lightweight class wrappers for each color mode /
space. These wrappers act similarly to the `Vec2/3/4` wrappers in
[@thi.ng/vectors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/vectors),
support striding (for mapped memory views), named channel accessor
aliases (in addition to array indexing) and are fully compatible with
all functions (and act as syntax sugar for generic conversion
functions). Wrapper factory functions are provided for convenience.

### Color theme generation

The package provides several methods for procedural & declarative color theme
generations. The latter relies on the concept of HSV color ranges, which can be
sampled directly and/or mixed with a base color to produce randomized
variations. Furthermore, multiple such ranges can be combined into a weighted
set to define probabilistic color themes.

```ts
// single random color drawn from the "bright" color range preset
colorFromRange(RANGES.bright);
// [ 0.7302125322518669, 0.8519945301256682, 0.8134374983367859, 1 ]

// single random color based on given HSV base color and preset
colorFromRange(RANGES.warm, [0.33, 1, 1])
// [ 0.3065587375218628, 0.8651353734302525, 0.748781892650323, 1 ]

// infinite iterator of colors sampled from the preset
// (see table below)
const colors = colorsFromRange(RANGES.bright);
colors.next();
// {
//   value: [ 0.006959075656347791, 0.8760165887192115, 0.912149937028727, 1 ],
//   done: false
// }

// 10 cool reds, w/ 10% hue variance
[...colorsFromRange(RANGES.cool, [0, 0.8, 1], { num: 10, variance: 0.1 })]

// generate colors based on given (weighted) textual description(s)
// here using named CSS colors, but could also be HSV tuples
[...colorsFromTheme(
    [["warm", "goldenrod"], ["cool", "springgreen", 0.1]],
    { num: 100, variance: 0.05 }
)]

// theme parts can also be given in the format used internally
// note: base colors are always in HSV
// all keys are optional (range, base, weight),
// but at least `range` or `base` must be given...
[...colorsFromTheme(
    [
        { range: "warm", base: "goldenrod" },
        { range: RANGES.cool, base: [0, 1, 0.5], weight: 0.1 }
    ],
    { num: 100, variance: 0.05 }
)]
```

| ID        | 100 colors drawn from color range preset only, sorted by hue                                                       |
|-----------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `bright`  | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-bright.svg)  |
| `cool`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-cool.svg)    |
| `dark`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-dark.svg)    |
| `fresh`   | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-fresh.svg)   |
| `hard`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-hard.svg)    |
| `intense` | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-intense.svg) |
| `light`   | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-light.svg)   |
| `neutral` | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-neutral.svg) |
| `soft`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-soft.svg)    |
| `warm`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-warm.svg)    |
| `weak`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-range-weak.svg)    |

| ID        | 100 colors, single base color w/ color range preset, sorted by hue                                                 |
|-----------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `bright`  | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-bright.svg)  |
| `cool`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-cool.svg)    |
| `dark`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-dark.svg)    |
| `fresh`   | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-fresh.svg)   |
| `hard`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-hard.svg)    |
| `intense` | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-intense.svg) |
| `light`   | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-light.svg)   |
| `neutral` | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-neutral.svg) |
| `soft`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-soft.svg)    |
| `warm`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-warm.svg)    |
| `weak`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-green-weak.svg)    |

| ID        | 100 colors, 2 base colors w/ color range preset, sorted by brightness                                            |
|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `bright`  | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-bright.svg)  |
| `cool`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-cool.svg)    |
| `dark`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-dark.svg)    |
| `fresh`   | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-fresh.svg)   |
| `hard`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-hard.svg)    |
| `intense` | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-intense.svg) |
| `light`   | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-light.svg)   |
| `neutral` | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-neutral.svg) |
| `soft`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-soft.svg)    |
| `warm`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-warm.svg)    |
| `weak`    | ![color swatch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-duo-weak.svg)    |

Full example:

```ts
import { colorsFromTheme, hsva, swatchesH } from "@thi.ng/color";
import { serialize } from "@thi.ng/hiccup";
import { svg } from "@thi.ng/hiccup-svg";
import { writeFileSync } from "fs";

// color theme definition using:
// color range preset names, CSS colors and weights
const theme: ColorThemePartTuple[] = [
    ["cool", "goldenrod"],
    ["fresh", "hotpink", 0.1],
    ["light", "springgreen", 0.1],
];

// generate 200 HSV colors based on above description
const colors = [...colorsFromTheme(theme, { num: 200, variance: 0.05 })];

// create SVG doc of color swatches (hiccup format)
// (convert colors to RGB for smaller file size)
const doc = svg(
    { width: 1000, height: 50, convert: true },
    swatchesH(colors.map((x) => hsvaRgba([], x)), 5, 50)
);

// serialize to SVG file
writeFileSync("export/swatches-ex01.svg", serialize(doc));
```

![example result color swatches](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-ex01.svg)

### Color sorting

The `sortColors()` function can be used to sort an array of colors using
arbitrary sort criteria. The following comparators are bundled:

- `selectChannel(i)` - sort by channel
- `proximityHSV(target)` - sort by distance to target color (HSV colors)
- `proximityRGB(target)` - sort by distance to target color (RGB colors)

```ts
// (see above example)
const colors = [...colorsFromTheme(theme, { num: 200, variance: 0.05 })];

sortColors(colors, proximityHSV([0,1,0.5]));
```

![sorted color swatches](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/swatches-ex02.svg)

### RGBA transformations

RGBA [color matrix
transformations](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/color/src/transform.ts),
including parametric preset transforms:

- brightness
- contrast
- exposure
- saturation (luminance aware)
- hue rotation
- color temperature (warm / cold)
- sepia (w/ fade amount)
- tint (green / magenta)
- grayscale (luminance aware)
- subtraction/inversion (also available as non-matrix op)
- luminance to alpha

Transformation matrices can be combined using matrix multiplication /
concatenation (see `concat()`) for more efficient application.

### RGBA Porter-Duff compositing

This feature has been moved to the separate
[@thi.ng/porter-duff](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/porter-duff)
package.

### Cosine gradients

- [Original article](http://www.iquilezles.org/www/articles/palettes/palettes.htm)
- [Gradient generator](http://dev.thi.ng/gradients/)

The following presets are bundled (in [`cosine-gradients.ts`](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/color/src/cosine-gradients.ts)):

| Preview                                                                                                                                       | Gradient ID             |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|
| ![gradient: blue-cyan](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-blue-cyan.png)                         | `blue-cyan`             |
| ![gradient: blue-magenta-orange](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-blue-magenta-orange.png)     | `blue-magenta-orange`   |
| ![gradient: blue-white-red](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-blue-white-red.png)               | `blue-white-red`        |
| ![gradient: cyan-magenta](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-cyan-magenta.png)                   | `cyan-magenta`          |
| ![gradient: green-blue-orange](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-green-blue-orange.png)         | `green-blue-orange`     |
| ![gradient: green-cyan](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-green-cyan.png)                       | `green-cyan`            |
| ![gradient: green-magenta](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-green-magenta.png)                 | `green-magenta`         |
| ![gradient: green-red](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-green-red.png)                         | `green-red`             |
| ![gradient: heat1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-heat1.png)                                 | `heat1`                 |
| ![gradient: magenta-green](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-magenta-green.png)                 | `magenta-green`         |
| ![gradient: orange-blue](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-orange-blue.png)                     | `orange-blue`           |
| ![gradient: orange-magenta-blue](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-orange-magenta-blue.png)     | `orange-magenta-blue`   |
| ![gradient: purple-orange-cyan](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-purple-orange-cyan.png)       | `purple-orange-cyan`    |
| ![gradient: rainbow1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-rainbow1.png)                           | `rainbow1`              |
| ![gradient: rainbow2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-rainbow2.png)                           | `rainbow2`              |
| ![gradient: rainbow3](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-rainbow3.png)                           | `rainbow3`              |
| ![gradient: rainbow4](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-rainbow4.png)                           | `rainbow4`              |
| ![gradient: red-blue](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-red-blue.png)                           | `red-blue`              |
| ![gradient: yellow-green-blue](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-yellow-green-blue.png)         | `yellow-green-blue`     |
| ![gradient: yellow-magenta-cyan](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-yellow-magenta-cyan.png)     | `yellow-magenta-cyan`   |
| ![gradient: yellow-purple-magenta](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-yellow-purple-magenta.png) | `yellow-purple-magenta` |
| ![gradient: yellow-red](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/color/gradient-yellow-red.png)                       | `yellow-red`            |

### Two-color gradients

The `cosineCoeffs()` function can be used to compute the cosine gradient
coefficients between 2 start/end colors:

```ts
// compute gradient coeffs between red / green
cosineGradient(10, cosineCoeffs([1,0,0,1], [0,1,0,1])).map(rgbaCss)
// #ff0000
// #f70800
// #e11e00
// #bf4000
// #966900
// #699600
// #40bf00
// #1ee100
// #08f700
// #00ff00
```

### Multi-stop gradients

The `multiCosineGradient()` function returns an iterator of raw RGBA
colors based on given gradient stops. This iterator computes a cosine
gradient between each color stop and yields a sequence of RGBA values.

```ts
col.multiCosineGradient(
    // num colors to produce
    10,
    // gradient stops (normalized positions, only RGBA colors supported)
    [0.1, col.RED], [0.5, col.GREEN], [0.9, col.BLUE]
)
// convert to CSS
.map(col.rgbaCss)

// [
//   "#ff0000",
//   "#ff0000",
//   "#da2500",
//   "#807f00",
//   "#25da00",
//   "#00ff00",
//   "#00da25",
//   "#00807f",
//   "#0025da",
//   "#0000ff",
//   "#0000ff",
// ]
```

${status}

${supportPackages}

${relatedPackages}

${blogPosts}

## Installation

${pkg.install}

${pkg.size}

## Dependencies

${pkg.deps}

${examples}

## API

${docLink}

```ts
import * as col from "@thi.ng/color";

// route #1: asXXX() converters: string -> CSS -> ARGB (int) -> RGBA
const a = col.asRGBA(col.css("#3cf"));
// [0.2, 0.8, 1, 1]

// route #2: parseCSS(): string -> RGBA
const b = col.parseCss("hsla(30,100%,50%,0.75)");
// [ 1, 0.5, 0, 0.75 ]

// route #3: convert() multi-method: CSS -> RGBA -> HSVA
// (see convert.ts)
const c = col.convert("rgb(0,255,255)", "hsv", "css");
// [ 0.4999999722222268, 0.9999990000010001, 1, 1 ]

// route #4: direct conversion RGBA -> HSLA -> CSS
// first arg is output color (same calling convention as @thi.ng/vectors)
// (use `null` to mutate the input color)
col.hslaCss(col.rgbaHsla([], [1, 0.5, 0.5, 1]))
// "hsl(0.00,100.00%,75.00%)"

col.luminance(col.css("white"))
col.luminance(0xffffff, "int")
// 1

// apply color matrix (RGBA only)
col.transform([], col.saturation(1.25), a)
// [ 0.07835000000000002, 0.82835, 1, 1 ]

// combine matrix transformations
filter = col.concat(
    col.saturation(0.5), // 50% saturation
    col.brightness(0.1), // +10% brightness
);

col.transform([], filter, col.RED);
// [ 0.7065, 0.2065, 0.2065, 1 ]
```

## Authors

${authors}

${pkg.cite}

## License

&copy; ${copyright} // ${license}
