packages/geom/tpl.readme.md, before:

# ${pkg.banner}

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/${pkg.name}.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/${pkg.name})
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/${pkg.name}.svg)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/thing_umbrella.svg?style=flat-square&label=twitter)](https://twitter.com/thing_umbrella)

This project is part of the
[@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo.

<!-- TOC -->

## About

${pkg.description}

This project is a partially ported from the [Clojure version of the same
name](http://thi.ng/geom). All polymorphic operations built on
[@thi.ng/defmulti](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/defmulti).

[**Up-to-date feature matrix spreadsheet**](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GxJm-zOQaGECui2MJUmy3gQPTF-T6BJ6vhNlUnPsmDs/edit?usp=sharing)

This package acts as a higher-level frontend for most of the following
related packages (which are more low-level, lightweight and usable by
themselves too):

${supportPackages}

${relatedPackages}

${status}

${blogPosts}

## Installation

${pkg.install}

${pkg.size}

## Dependencies

${pkg.deps}

${examples}

## API

${docLink}

TODO

## Authors

${authors}

## License

&copy; ${copyright} // ${license}

Commit message:

docs(geom): update links to clojure version

packages/geom/tpl.readme.md, after:

# ${pkg.banner}

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/${pkg.name}.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/${pkg.name})
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/${pkg.name}.svg)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/thing_umbrella.svg?style=flat-square&label=twitter)](https://twitter.com/thing_umbrella)

This project is part of the
[@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo.

For the Clojure version, please visit: [thi.ng/geom-clj](https://thi.ng/geom-clj)

<!-- TOC -->

## About

${pkg.description}

This project is a partially ported from the [Clojure version of the same
name](http://thi.ng/geom-clj). All polymorphic operations built on
[@thi.ng/defmulti](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/defmulti).

[**Up-to-date feature matrix spreadsheet**](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GxJm-zOQaGECui2MJUmy3gQPTF-T6BJ6vhNlUnPsmDs/edit?usp=sharing)

This package acts as a higher-level frontend for most of the following
related packages (which are more low-level, lightweight and usable by
themselves too):

${supportPackages}

${relatedPackages}

${status}

${blogPosts}

## Installation

${pkg.install}

${pkg.size}

## Dependencies

${pkg.deps}

${examples}

## API

${docLink}

TODO

## Authors

${authors}

## License

&copy; ${copyright} // ${license}
