packages/rle-pack/README.md, before:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->

# ![@thi.ng/rle-pack](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-rle-pack.svg?63d8a4bb)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/rle-pack.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/rle-pack)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/rle-pack.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
  - [Encoding format](#encoding-format)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [API](#api)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Binary [run-length
encoding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Run-length_encoding)
packer/unpacker with support for customizable input word sizes (1 - 32
bits) and repeat count (run-length) bit sizes (1 - 16 bits). The encoder
uses 4 different repeat group sizes (thresholds) to minimize the number
of bits used to store the run lengths. The range of supported run
lengths is 16 bits (i.e. 65536 repetitions). If a value is repeated more
often than that, the remainder will be encoded using additional RLE
chunks...

### Encoding format

![data layout](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/rle/rle-layout.png)

- 32 bits - original number of words
- 5 bits - word size
- 16 bits - 4x RLE repeat group / chunk sizes (in bits)

The default group sizes are: 3, 4, 8, 16, i.e. 8, 16, 256, 65536 repetitions

Then per value:

- 1 bit - encoding flag (1 = RLE encoded, 0 = single occurrence)
- 2 bits - repeat or chunk class ID
- m bits - repeat count or chunk size (if greater than max group size
  then split into chunks...)
- n bits - value(s)

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Brle-pack%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/binary](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/binary) - 100+ assorted binary / bitwise operations, conversions, utilities, lookup tables
- [@thi.ng/bitstream](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/bitstream) - ES6 iterator based read/write bit streams with support for variable word widths
- [@thi.ng/range-coder](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/range-coder) - Binary data range encoder / decoder

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/rle-pack
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/rle-pack"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const rlePack = await import("@thi.ng/rle-pack");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 637 bytes

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/bitstream](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/bitstream)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/rle-pack/)

```ts
import { encode, decode } from "@thi.ng/rle-pack";

// prepare dummy data
src = new Uint8Array(1024);
src.set([1,1,1,1,1,2,2,2,2,3,3,3,4,4,5,4,4,3,3,3,2,2,2,2,1,1,1,1,1], 512);

// pack data
packed = encode(src, src.length);
packed.length
// 30 => 2.93% of original

// pack with custom word size (3 bits, i.e. our value range is only 0-7)
// and use custom repeat group sizes suitable for our data
alt = encode(src, src.length, 3, [1, 2, 3, 9]);
alt.length
// 20 => 1.95% of original, 66% of default config

// unpack
unpacked = new Uint8Array(decode(alt));
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-rle-pack,
  title = "@thi.ng/rle-pack",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/rle-pack",
  year = 2017
}
```

## License

&copy; 2017 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

docs: update readmes (CFP survey header)

packages/rle-pack/README.md, after:

<!-- This file is generated - DO NOT EDIT! -->
<!-- Please see: https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md#changes-to-readme-files -->
> [!IMPORTANT]
> ‼️ Announcing the thi.ng user survey 2024 📋
>
> [Please participate in the survey here!](https://forms.gle/XacbSDEmQMPZg8197)\
> (open until end of February)
>
> **To achieve a better sample size, I'd highly appreciate if you could
> circulate the link to this survey in your own networks.**
>
> [Discussion](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/discussions/447)

# ![@thi.ng/rle-pack](https://media.thi.ng/umbrella/banners-20230807/thing-rle-pack.svg?63d8a4bb)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@thi.ng/rle-pack.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@thi.ng/rle-pack)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@thi.ng/rle-pack.svg)
[![Mastodon Follow](https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/109331703950160316?domain=https%3A%2F%2Fmastodon.thi.ng&style=social)](https://mastodon.thi.ng/@toxi)

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of 189 standalone projects, maintained as part
> of the [@thi.ng/umbrella](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/) monorepo
> and anti-framework.
>
> 🚀 Help me to work full-time on these projects by [sponsoring me on
> GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/postspectacular). Thank you! ❤️

- [About](#about)
  - [Encoding format](#encoding-format)
- [Status](#status)
- [Related packages](#related-packages)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [API](#api)
- [Authors](#authors)
- [License](#license)

## About

Binary [run-length
encoding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Run-length_encoding)
packer/unpacker with support for customizable input word sizes (1 - 32
bits) and repeat count (run-length) bit sizes (1 - 16 bits). The encoder
uses 4 different repeat group sizes (thresholds) to minimize the number
of bits used to store the run lengths. The range of supported run
lengths is 16 bits (i.e. 65536 repetitions). If a value is repeated more
often than that, the remainder will be encoded using additional RLE
chunks...

### Encoding format

![data layout](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thi-ng/umbrella/develop/assets/rle/rle-layout.png)

- 32 bits - original number of words
- 5 bits - word size
- 16 bits - 4x RLE repeat group / chunk sizes (in bits)

The default group sizes are: 3, 4, 8, 16, i.e. 8, 16, 256, 65536 repetitions

Then per value:

- 1 bit - encoding flag (1 = RLE encoded, 0 = single occurrence)
- 2 bits - repeat or chunk class ID
- m bits - repeat count or chunk size (if greater than max group size
  then split into chunks...)
- n bits - value(s)

## Status

**STABLE** - used in production

[Search or submit any issues for this package](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/issues?q=%5Brle-pack%5D+in%3Atitle)

## Related packages

- [@thi.ng/binary](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/binary) - 100+ assorted binary / bitwise operations, conversions, utilities, lookup tables
- [@thi.ng/bitstream](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/bitstream) - ES6 iterator based read/write bit streams with support for variable word widths
- [@thi.ng/range-coder](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/range-coder) - Binary data range encoder / decoder

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @thi.ng/rle-pack
```

ES module import:

```html
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.skypack.dev/@thi.ng/rle-pack"></script>
```

[Skypack documentation](https://docs.skypack.dev/)

For Node.js REPL:

```js
const rlePack = await import("@thi.ng/rle-pack");
```

Package sizes (brotli'd, pre-treeshake): ESM: 637 bytes

## Dependencies

- [@thi.ng/bitstream](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/bitstream)
- [@thi.ng/errors](https://github.com/thi-ng/umbrella/tree/develop/packages/errors)

## API

[Generated API docs](https://docs.thi.ng/umbrella/rle-pack/)

```ts
import { encode, decode } from "@thi.ng/rle-pack";

// prepare dummy data
src = new Uint8Array(1024);
src.set([1,1,1,1,1,2,2,2,2,3,3,3,4,4,5,4,4,3,3,3,2,2,2,2,1,1,1,1,1], 512);

// pack data
packed = encode(src, src.length);
packed.length
// 30 => 2.93% of original

// pack with custom word size (3 bits, i.e. our value range is only 0-7)
// and use custom repeat group sizes suitable for our data
alt = encode(src, src.length, 3, [1, 2, 3, 9]);
alt.length
// 20 => 1.95% of original, 66% of default config

// unpack
unpacked = new Uint8Array(decode(alt));
```

## Authors

- [Karsten Schmidt](https://thi.ng)

If this project contributes to an academic publication, please cite it as:

```bibtex
@misc{thing-rle-pack,
  title = "@thi.ng/rle-pack",
  author = "Karsten Schmidt",
  note = "https://thi.ng/rle-pack",
  year = 2017
}
```

## License

&copy; 2017 - 2024 Karsten Schmidt // Apache License 2.0
